Rutgers University- New Brunswick 
1Saturday January 25th, 2014 :: 09:55 a.m. EST
The New Brunswick Police and the Rutgers University Police Department are investigating a robbery which has been reported to have occurred on Saturday January 25, 2014 at approximately 4:40 AM. This incident occurred at the intersection of College Avenue and Mine Street, which is located on the College Avenue Campus.  In this incident the victim reported that while walking he was approached from behind by a single male who forced a hard object into his back and demanded his wallet and cell phone. After taking the victim’s property, the suspect fled in a waiting gray Honda Civic which traveled down Mine Street towards Easton Avenue.  The victim was not physically injured during this incident.  The description of the assailant is limited at this time.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.  Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  January 25, 2014
2Saturday February 1st, 2014 :: 09:04 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:  The New Brunswick Police and the Rutgers University Police Department are investigating a robbery which is reported to have occurred on Saturday February 01, 2014 at approximately 1:10 AM. This incident occurred at the intersection of College Avenue and Hamilton Street, which is located on the College Avenue Campus.  In this incident, the victim reported that he was walking with a cellular phone in hand when he was approached by a single male who inquired whether he was interested in purchasing narcotics. When the victim declined, the suspect struck him along his right arm with a lowered shoulder which caused his cellular phone to drop on the pavement. After quickly securing the victim’s property, the suspect fled in a silver late model Dodge Charger which had been waiting near Scott Hall. The vehicle in question was last seen by the victim travelling on College Avenue in the direction of the George Street Extension.  There were no weapons utilized in the commission of this crime.  The victim was not physically injured during this incident.  The assailant was described as a white male in his early 20's with short black hair, a clean shaven face, approximately six feet in height and 180 pounds. At the time of the robbery, the suspect was reportedly wearing a thin black jacket which was open at the front and jeans.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.  Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 1, 2014
3Thursday March 13th, 2014 :: 10:30 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community-  The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a home invasion which has been reported to have occurred on Thursday, March 13, 2014 at approximately 3:30 am. This incident occurred on Louis Street between Hamilton and Somerset Streets.  In this incident, three male assailants entered the house and demanded items of value from the residents, who are affiliated with Rutgers University. One of the male assailants displayed a handgun and used the handle of the weapon to strike one of the victims. As a result, the victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and was treated at a local hospital. NBPD indicated the presence of narcotics at the scene.  The description of the assailants is limited at this time.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick Police Department at (732) 745-5200.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remain alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walk in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.  Authority:  Chief of University Police, Kenneth Cop  March 13, 2014
4Saturday March 15th, 2014 :: 11:12 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which has been reported to have occurred on Saturday, March 15, 2014 at approximately 5:24 a.m on High Street between Hamilton Street and Somerset Street.  In this incident, a victim, unaffiliated with Rutgers, reported that while walking he was approached by a male who made a verbal threat and demanded personal property. After taking the victim’s property, the suspect struck the victim in the face and then fled on foot. As a result, the victim sustained a non-life threatening injury and was transported to the hospital for further treatment.  The description of the assailant is limited at this time.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick Police Department at (732) 745-5200.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Walk in groups when possible;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.  Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  March 15, 2014
5Tuesday March 18th, 2014 :: 03:37 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:  The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery that occurred on Monday, March 17, 2014 at approximately 7:15 PM:  In this incident, the victim, an affiliated female, reported that she was walking on Livingston Avenue in the area of Handy Street when she was approached from behind by an unknown assailant. She stated the individual grabbed her from behind and threw her to the ground and demanded her cellular phone. The victim stated she handed her cell phone to the individual who then assaulted her by striking her in the face with a closed hand. The victim was treated at a local hospital for non-life threatening injuries.  The assailant is described as a young black male with shoulder length dreads wearing baggie jeans and a heavy zip-up dark colored jacket. He was also reportedly wearing a multi-colored checkered scarf.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time of the incident is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.  Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  March 18, 2014
6Thursday March 20th, 2014 :: 03:33 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a burglary which has been reported to have occurred on Thursday, March 20, 2014 at approximately 1:55 am within a private residence on Hamilton Street between Plum Street and Harvey Street.  In this incident, the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he observed an unknown male suspect exiting one of the unoccupied rooms. Upon observing the victim, the male suspect dropped personal property belonging to the one of the residents and fled the home in an unknown direction.  The front door of the residence was found unsecured and there were no signs of forced entry.  The victim was not injured during this incident.  The suspect is described as a black male in his mid 30s, approximately 6’2” in height with short hair wearing a black jacket.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick City Police Department at (732) 745-5200 or the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Allow in only guests who are known to you;  ♣ Keep doors locked when home;  ♣ Remain alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  March 20, 2014
7Tuesday April 1st, 2014 :: 08:59 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department investigated a burglary to a university owned building which was reported to have occurred between the hours of 4:30 PM on Friday, March 28th and 8:00 AM on Monday, March 31st, 2014. The building is located on Church Street between Paterson & George Streets.  In this incident, unknown suspect(s) entered the building by causing damage to locks and subsequently removed several items of value which had been contained within. No one was present at the time of this incident.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions, which include:  - Escort guests whenever possible.  - Report defective locks, card readers, or burnt-out lights.  - Lock doors and windows when work sites and residences are unoccupied.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.  Authority:   Chief Kenneth Cop  April 1, 2014
8Tuesday April 15th, 2014 :: 12:17 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:  The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating an attempted aggravated assault which has been reported to have occurred on Monday, April 14, 2014 at approximately 3:10 PM within the Pine Street Park (5 Pine Street, New Brunswick, NJ).  In this incident, the victim, who is not affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that a suspect, with whom he is acquainted, attempted to injury him by shooting a firearm in his direction. Once unsuccessful, the victim reported that the suspect then drove his vehicle in the direction of the victim. The victim was not injured during this incident and the suspect fled the area in a direction away from the University’s Campus.  The suspect, who is also not affiliated with Rutgers University, has been identified and a warrant has been issued for his arrest. The police investigation has revealed that this incident was part of a dispute involving two individuals who are related to one another.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick City Police Department at (732) 745-5200 or the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Allow in only guests who are known to you;  ♣ Keep doors locked when home;  ♣ Remain alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 15, 2014
9Thursday April 17th, 2014 :: 08:49 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which has been reported to have occurred on Wednesday, April 16, 2014 at approximately 11:30 AM. This incident occurred in the area of Nichol Avenue and Seaman Street.  In this incident, the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that while walking she was approached by two males who were on bicycles. One individual took her cell phone and the other took a black bag containing personal property. During this incident, a knife was displayed by the second suspect.  The victim was not physically injured during this incident.  The assailants were described as Hispanic males in their mid 20’s who spoke with an accent. One individual was wearing a grey hooded sweat shirt and the other was wearing a black hooded sweat shirt. One of the males was noticeably heavier than the other.  The assailants fled on bicycles towards Jones Avenue and made a left on Jones Avenue towards Handy Street.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 16, 2014
10.Saturday April 19th, 2014 :: 11:14 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) has two incidents to report, the first an on-campus aggravated assault and the second an off-campus robbery. In the first incident the RUPD is investigating an aggravated assault which has been reported to have occurred on Saturday, April 19, 2014 at approximately 3:10 a.m. inside the Livingston B Dormitory on Livingston Campus.  In this incident, two victims, who are both affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that after a verbal argument occurred at a party within a residence, three to four individuals threw glass bottles at them, causing minor injuries.  Two more victims, who are unaffiliated with Rutgers, were reportedly assaulted just outside the residence by the same group and also experienced minor injuries. As a result of this incident, two of the four victims were treated at a local hospital.  The suspects are unknown to the victims and are described as three or four males. One was further described as heavy-set, approximately 20 years old, 5’9” tall, light-skinned with dreadlocks.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  In the second incident, the New Brunswick Police Department is investigating an off-campus robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday April 19, 2014 at approximately 3:45 AM. This incident occurred inside the 185 Hamilton Street parking lot, which is located on Hamilton Street between Division Street and High Street in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim reported that he was walking when he was approached by a group of 10-15 males, who demanded that he provide them with his personal property. The victim complied and all of the assailants then fled the area in three separate motor vehicles. There were no weapons displayed or utilized in the commission of this crime and the victim was not physically injured during this incident.  The primary assailant was described as a black male with long dreadlocks. At the time of the robbery, the primary assailant was reportedly wearing a red t-shirt. Descriptions of the remaining assailants and the vehicles they fled in are limited at this time.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  - Allow in only guests who are known to you;  - Keep doors locked when home;  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 19, 2014
11.Tuesday April 22nd, 2014 :: 10:28 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Monday, April 21, 2014. The incident was reported to have occurred, off-campus, at approximately 8:55 p.m. on Hamilton Street in the area of Division Street. In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that while walking on Hamilton Street; he was approached by two males who verbally demanded his headphones while threatening to injure him. The victim handed over his headphones and the assailants fled from Hamilton Street towards Easton Avenue. There were no weapons displayed by the assailants and the victim was not physically injured during this incident.  The New Brunswick City Police Department is also investigating a theft which is believed to have been committed by the perpetrators of the earlier robbery. This incident was reported to have occurred on April 21, 2014 at approximately 9:05 PM on Stone Street. The perpetrators of this incident are described as three black males: the first male was wearing a tan shirt and black pants with a stripe on the legs and the second male was wearing a black hooded sweatshirt. No description is available for the third suspect. The victim described the assailants as being juveniles.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.
12. Friday April 25th, 2014 :: 03:16 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community,  The Rutgers Police Department is investigating an off-campus robbery which has been reported to have occurred last night, Thursday, April 24, 2014 at approximately 11:25PM on a Newark City bus.  In this incident, the victim, who is non-affiliated, reported that while exiting the bus at the intersection of Washington St. and Central Ave. he was approached by two males who he knows and socializes with regularly. The suspects assaulted the victim and fled the scene with the victim’s backpack. The victim sustained minor injuries as a result.   The suspects in this incident, both who are non-affiliated have been named and can be identified. The first suspect is described as a black male, wearing all white clothing, has tattoos on both arms, between 5’6”- 5’8”tall, and approximately 20-29 years old. The second suspect is described as a Hispanic male, wearing a blue sweater and reading glasses, has curly hair, and is also between 5’6”-5’8” tall.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Division at 973-972-6394 or 973-353-5111 (24/7)  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Remain alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  • Walk in groups when traveling during late night hours.  Patrols have been increased in this area. For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Carmelo V. Huertas  Rutgers Police Department  Newark Division
13.Saturday April 26th, 2014 :: 10:11 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which occurred on Saturday, April 26, 2014 at approximately 2:40 AM on Sicard Street near the intersection of Morrell Street in New Brunswick. In this incident, the victim, who is not affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that an unknown individual drove up next to him and displayed what was described as a firearm while demanding that he turn over personal property. The perpetrator then stepped out of his car and physically assaulted the victim. The victim reported that the perpetrators then fled down Morrell Street in the direction of Easton Avenue. The victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and was treated at a local hospital.  The perpetrator of this incident is described as a black male approximately 6 feet tall, weighing 200 pounds and wearing a dark hooded sweat shirt. The vehicle was described as a dark colored four door sedan, unknown make or model.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick City Police Department at (732) 745-5200 or the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Walk in groups when possible and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 26, 2014
14.Saturday April 26th, 2014 :: 10:11 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which occurred on Saturday, April 26, 2014 at approximately 2:50 AM on College Avenue near the intersection of Seminary Place in New Brunswick. In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that while walking on College Avenue he was approached by three perpetrators which physically assaulted him. The victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and was treated at a local hospital.  A description of the perpetrators is limited at this time.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211 New Brunswick City Police Department at (732) 745-5200.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Walk in groups when possible and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 26, 2014
15. Friday May 2nd, 2014 :: 06:31 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a burglary which occurred between May 1, 2014 and May 2, 2014 at 110 Frelinghuysen Road (Hill Center) on the Piscataway campus. In this incident, two offices were burglarized and cash was taken. Physical evidence was recovered from the scene by Investigators. Suspect information is limited at this time.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at (848) 932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Secure all work spaces when not in use;  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Walk in groups when possible and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 2, 2014
16.Saturday May 3rd, 2014 :: 10:31 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which occurred on Saturday, May 3, 2014 at approximately 01:50 AM on Senior Street near the intersection with Sicard Street in New Brunswick. In this incident, the victim, a Rutgers University student, reported that while walking on Senior Street he was approached by an unknown individual who struck him in the face without provocation. The victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and was treated at a local hospital.  The perpetrator of this incident is described as a black male approximately 6'2", 20 years old, thin built, wearing a brown reddish short sleeve t-shirt and tan pants.   Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Walk in groups when possible and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 3, 2014
17.Sunday May 4th, 2014 :: 01:00 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating an assault which occurred on Sunday, May 4, 2014 at approximately 01:00 AM. This incident occurred on Hamilton Street near the intersection with Union Street in New Brunswick. In this incident, the victims who are Rutgers University students, reported that while walking on Hamilton Street that they were approached by an unknown individual who verbally threatened to fight with them and then punched and kicked them. The victims sustained non-life threatening injuries.  The perpetrator of this incident is described as a white female, late teens to early twenties, 5’9” to 5’11” in height, with a piercing in her left eyebrow and upper lip. She was further described as wearing blue jeans and a white tank top.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick City Police Department at:(732) 745-5200 or the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Walk in groups when possible and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 4, 2014
18.Sunday May 4th, 2014 :: 11:25 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a burglary to The Les Turchin Chabad House which is located at 170 College Avenue, New Brunswick. This incident was reported to have occurred on Sunday, May 4, 2014 at approximately 2:58 AM.  In this incident, the subject reportedly entered the building by forcing open an entry door. After gaining entry, the perpetrator vandalized a vending machine and removed food items from within. The perpetrator was seen fleeing with a group of 4 males on College Avenue in the direction of the College Avenue Student Center.  The perpetrator is described as a white male approximately 21 years old with a light beard, dark brown hair, wearing a black jacket, blue jeans and black shoes with white soles.   Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions, which include:  - Escort guests whenever possible;  - Report defective locks, card readers, or burnt-out lights;  - Lock doors and windows when work sites and residences are unoccupied and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:   Chief Kenneth Cop  May 4, 2014
19. Tuesday May 6th, 2014 :: 05:21 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which is reported to have occurred on Tuesday, May 6, 2014 at approximately 01:20 AM. This incident occurred at an off campus establishment located on Easton Avenue between Hamilton and Condict Streets, in New Brunswick. In this incident, the victim, a Rutgers University student who is an employee of the establishment, reported that he was struck in the head with a glass while attempting to mitigate a disturbance by a male who was patronizing the establishment. The assailant was last seen walking on Easton Avenue towards Somerset Street. The victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and was treated at a local hospital.  The assailant was described as a Middle Eastern male with a thin build, dark hair, multiple tattoos on his right arm, and wearing a motorcycle style jacket with two stripes on the sleeves.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick City Police Department at: (732) 745-5200 or the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at: http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 6, 2014
20.Wednesday May 7th, 2014 :: 11:33 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating the theft of a motor vehicle from University Parking Lot 58B, which is located off of Bevier Road on the Busch Campus in Piscataway. This incident is reported to have occurred between the hours of 12:00 PM and 6:45 PM on Wednesday, May 7, 2014.  In this incident, the victim reported parking a vehicle (an older model red Volkswagen Passat) within the parking lot and being unable to locate the vehicle upon returning. The subsequent police investigation recovered the vehicle as being abandoned within another jurisdiction with its ignition punched out.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.   The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions, which include:  - Make sure to secure your vehicle;  - Conceal or “hide” power cords from cell phones, iPods & GPS units when left unattended within your vehicle;  - Anti-theft devices such as the "Club" and car alarms may deter a thief from burglarizing or stealing your vehicle;  - Do not hide spare keys under your car; and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 7, 2014
21.Friday May 9th, 2014 :: 12:35 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a burglary which has been reported to have occurred on Thursday, May 8th, 2014 at approximately 10:15 pm within a private residence located on Central Avenue between Guilden Street & Prosper Street, in New Brunswick. In this incident, the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, observed an unknown perpetrator moving about the lower level of the residence. The victim further reported that the perpetrator entered several unlocked rooms and removed items of value. The police investigation revealed a door of the residence was likely the point of entry by the perpetrator.  The victim was not approached by the perpetrator during the incident.  A description of the perpetrator is limited at this time.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the New Brunswick City Police Department at (732) 745-5200 or the Rutgers Police Department at (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Allow in only guests who are known to you;  - Keep doors locked when home;  - Remain alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you; and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 9, 2014
22.Wednesday May 14th, 2014 :: 04:56 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating the theft of a motor vehicle from University Parking Lot 58B, which is located off of Bevier Road on the Busch Campus in Piscataway. This incident is reported to have occurred between the hours of 10:00 AM on May 2, 2014 and 5:00 PM on May 13, 2014.  In this incident, the victim reported parking a vehicle (an older model black Volkswagen Passat) within the parking lot and being unable to locate the vehicle upon returning. The subsequent police investigation recovered the vehicle as being abandoned within another jurisdiction.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions, which include:  - Make sure to secure your vehicle;  - Conceal or “hide” power cords from cell phones, iPods & GPS units when left unattended within your vehicle;  - Anti-theft devices such as the "Club" and car alarms may deter a thief from burglarizing or stealing your vehicle;  - Do not hide spare keys under your car; and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 14, 2014
23.Thursday May 15th, 2014 :: 06:42 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating the theft of a motor vehicle from University Parking Lot 51A, which is located off of Taylor Road on the Busch Campus in Piscataway. This incident is reported to have occurred between the hours of 6:00 PM on May 11, 2014 and 9:20 PM on May 13, 2014.  In this incident, the victim reported parking a vehicle (an older model silver Volkswagen Passat) within the parking lot and being unable to locate the vehicle upon returning.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions, which include:  - Make sure to secure your vehicle;  - Conceal or “hide” power cords from cell phones, iPods & GPS units when left unattended within your vehicle;  - Anti-theft devices such as the "Club" and car alarms may deter a thief from burglarizing or stealing your vehicle;  - Do not hide spare keys under your car; and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 15, 2014
24.Tuesday May 20th, 2014 :: 12:08 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community,   The Rutgers Police Department is investigating a robbery has been reported to have occurred on Monday, May 19, 2014 at approximately 10 PM at a city bus stop near The School of Dental Medicine, 50 12th Ave., Newark, NJ.  In this incident, the victim, who is affiliated, reported that while waiting for the city bus he was approached by three juvenile males who attempted to forcibly remove his backpack and cellular phone. The perpetrators who were unsuccessful, attempted to flee the scene. Rutgers Police apprehend one of the juvenile males who is now in custody. The victim was not physically injured.  The victim was able to describe the other two perpetrators. The first juvenile was described as a black male, tall and wearing a white and green hooded sweatshirt. The second juvenile was described as a black male, heavy-set and also wearing a hooded sweatshirt.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, is asked to please contact the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Division at 973-972-6394 or 973-353-5111 (24/7)  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  · Remain alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  · Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  · Walk in groups when traveling during late night hours.  Patrols have been increased in this area. For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Carmelo V. Huertas  Rutgers Police Department  Newark Division
25.Friday May 23rd, 2014 :: 01:06 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a home invasion which was reported to have occurred on Thursday, May 22, 2014 at approximately 10:40 P.M. This incident occurred at a private residence located on Hamilton Street between Dix Street and Woodbridge Street near the border of New Brunswick City and Franklin Township.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that two masked men entered the victim’s residence, displayed a handgun and demanded money and drugs.  The victim was not physically injured during this incident.  The victim described the suspects as wearing dark pants and dark hooded jackets with black gloves and white masks.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau, Detective Kenneth Abode at 732-745-5217 or the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  ♣ Allow in only guests who are known to you;  ♣ Report defective locks, card readers, or burnt-out lights;  ♣ Keep doors locked when home;  ♣ Remain alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you; and  ♣ Report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 23, 2014
26.Monday June 2nd, 2014 :: 07:56 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Monday, June 2, 2014 at approximately 12:00 AM. The incident was reported to have occurred on High Street which is located between Hamilton and Somerset Streets in New Brunswick. In this incident the victim, a Rutgers University student, reported that while walking on High Street; he was approached by the perpetrator who struck him in the back of head causing him to fall to the ground. Following his fall, the perpetrator removed items of value from the victim and fled on High Street towards Somerset Street. There were no weapons displayed by the assailant and the victim was not seriously injured during this incident.  The perpetrator is described as black male approximately 5’11”, medium build, with ear length dreadlocks, wearing a black shirt and blue jeans.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  June 2, 2014
27.Tuesday July 8th, 2014 :: 08:20 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers Police Department is investigating two burglaries which were reported to have occurred on the Douglass Campus.  The first incident was reported to have occurred between July 3, 2014 and July 7, 2014 inside College Hall which is located at 125 George Street on the Douglass Campus. In this incident, the victim reported that unknown individual(s) entered the building and removed items of value.  The second incident was reported to have occurred between Monday June 23, 2014 and Tuesday July 8, 2014 inside the second level of the Graduate Music House located at 7 Chapel Drive on the Douglass Campus. In this incident, the victim reported that unknown individual(s) forcibly entered the building and caused property damage.  These incidents remains under investigation and, at this time, it is unknown if they are related.  The Rutgers Police Department is actively investigating both of these incidents and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (732) 932-8025 or (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police Department
28.Tuesday July 29th, 2014 :: 11:37 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community,   The Rutgers Police Department is investigating a burglary which was reported to have occurred on Tuesday, July 29, 2014 at approximately 5:30 PM. The incident occurred at Woodward Hall, which is located at 91 Bleeker Street on the Rutgers-Newark campus.  In this incident, an affiliated Rutgers exchange-student reported that a group of female juveniles engaged him in a conversation in an attempt to distract him, at which time he observed a male juvenile enter his dorm room. The male juvenile removed personal property and subsequently all juveniles fled the area on foot.  The primary perpetrator in this incident was described as a black male juvenile, wearing a black tee shirt with white block letter writing, green army style pants, and white sneakers. The three black female juveniles were described as follows: (1) wearing black top with pink pants and pink sneakers, approx. 5'6" tall, (2) blue top and black pants and white sneakers, approx. 6' tall, and (3) blue top/blue pants and pink sneakers, approx. 5'6" tall. All juveniles were described as approximately 15-17 years of age.  The victim was not physically injured as a result of the incident.  The Rutgers Police Department is actively investigating this incident and patrols have been increased to this area. Any person who witnessed this incident or has any relevant information should contact the Rutgers Police Department at (973) 353-5111 or the Investigations Unit at (973) 972-6394.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu/rupd/tips.shtml.  Also, as a reminder, the police department will provide a security or police escort to your vehicle parked on or adjacent to Rutgers campuses upon request.   Authority:   Chief Carmelo V. Huertas  Rutgers Police Department  July 29, 2014
29. Saturday August 2nd, 2014 :: 05:28 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which occurred on Hamilton Street near the intersection with Guilden Street, near the College Avenue Campus. The incident was reported to have occurred on Saturday, August 2, 2014 at approximately 12:30 AM.  In this incident, the victims reporting walking on Hamilton Street when they were approached by another group of individuals. During this encounter, two of the individuals reported being shot by unknown perpetrator(s) for reasons which are not yet known. The two victims received non-life threatening injuries and received treatment at a local area hospital. Neither victim is affiliated with Rutgers University.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating the incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the New Brunswick Police Department's Detective Bureau at (732) 745-5216.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:   Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police Department  August 2, 2014
30. Sunday August 17th, 2014 :: 11:01 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) is investigating a burglary which occurred on Sunday, August 17, 2014, at 7:00 PM at College Hall, located at 125 George Street, on the Douglass Campus in New Brunswick.  In this incident, an affiliated staff member who occupied College Hall reported that an unknown individual entered the building. The RUPD immediately responded and found damage to several offices on the second and third floor. A search of the building and immediate area yielded no suspects.  The perpetrator was not observed by the staff member and a description is limited at this time.  The Rutgers University Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025 or (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Secure all work spaces when not in use;  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Do not prop open exterior doors;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  August 17, 2014
31. Monday August 25th, 2014 :: 08:46 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:  The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred at approximately 11:20 PM on Sunday, August 24, 2014. This incident occurred in the area of 300 Hamilton Street, New Brunswick City; which is off-campus, in the area of the where Hamilton Street intersects with Woodbridge Street.  In this incident the victim, who is unaffiliated with the Rutgers University, was walking to his residence when he was approached by three males. The three perpetrators proceeded to assault the victim and then fled the area in an unknown direction. The victim received treatment for non-life threatening injuries at a local area hospital.  While the description of the perpetrators is somewhat limited at this time; they are described as: one white male wearing a white t-shirt and two black males: the first was wearing a white t-shirt and second was wearing a black hooded sweatshirt with stripes.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217 or the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  Avoid isolated or dark areas;  Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.  Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police Department  August 25, 2014
32. Tuesday September 2nd, 2014 :: 06:52 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on High Street, between Hamilton and Somerset Streets at approximately 11:00 PM on Monday, September 1, 2014.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with Rutgers University, was walking on High Street when he confronted three males who may have been following him. The three perpetrators proceeded to assault the victim and searched his pockets. The perpetrators then fled the area in an unknown direction. The victim reported being struck on the arm with an unknown object during the course of the assault and received treatment for a minor injury.  While the description of the perpetrators is somewhat limited at this time; they are described as:  Perpetrator #1 – Black male, approximately 6 foot tall, with dread locked hair wearing a white t-shirt and cargo pants;  Perpetrator #2 – Black male, approximately 5’ 5” – 5’ 7” in height, wearing an all red t-shirt and having short hair; and  Perpetrator #3 – Black male, approximately 5’ 10” in height, wearing all dark color clothing, possibly with an afro style haircut.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217 or the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police Department
33. Saturday September 13th, 2014 :: 12:04 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, September 13, 2014 at approximately 03:06 AM. This incident occurred on Stone Street in the area of Sicard Street, adjacent to the College Avenue Campus.   In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that they were approached by two perpetrators who demanded that they turn over personal property while displaying a handgun. The victims complied and the perpetrators then fled the area on Stone Street towards Easton Avenue.  One of the victims further reported being struck in the head with a blunt object was transported to a local area hospital where he was treated and released.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time and they were described as two tall, thin black males wearing ski masks and dressed in black attire.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217 or the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  Avoid isolated or dark areas;  Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police Department  September 13, 2014
34. Saturday October 4th, 2014 :: 09:52 a.m. EDT
**Missing Person has been located and is safe and unharmed.**  The Piscataway Township Police Department is seeking the public's assistance is locating a missing "at risk" person:  Faraz A. Chaudhri, 18 year old male of Indian Descent. He is 5' - 07" in height, 120 pounds in weight, with short cut black hair. He was last seen wearing a white t-shirt, brown khaki cargo pants and possibly barefoot in the area of Deborah Drive near Mitchell Avenue. He left his residence at approximately 2:15 am this morning, on foot.  If you have information that can assist in helping safely locate Faraz Chaudhri, please contact Piscataway Police at (732) 562-1100 or contact your local police.  To send an Anonymous Tip via Text Message to Piscataway Township Police, text the keyword TIP PTPD and your tip message to 888777 .  Thank you for your assistance.
35.Wednesday October 8th, 2014 :: 10:59 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community,   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a forcible fondling which occurred Tuesday, October 7, 2014 at approximately 12:30 pm inside a first floor male restroom (nearest the Rock Cafe) of the Livingston Student Center located at 61 Joyce Kilmer Avenue in Piscataway.  A victim reported being fondled through clothing while attempting to exit a bathroom stall. The victim was able to push the suspect away and leave the area without sustaining any physical injury.  The suspect is described as a Hispanic male, approximately 5’6” tall, thin build, and in his early fifties, wearing a black pony tail. The suspect was further described as wearing an over sized, multicolored jacket.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact Sergeant Carlos Rodriguez of the Rutgers University Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025 or (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police Department  October 8, 2014
36.Friday October 10th, 2014 :: 08:27 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) is investigating a burglary which occurred on Friday, October 10, 2014, at 3:50 AM. This incident occurred at the convenience store within the Student Activities Center which is located at 613 George Street, on the College Avenue Campus in New Brunswick. In this incident, the suspect gained entry into the convenience store by way of force through the front door and removed items of value. The suspect, who is unaffiliated with Rutgers University, has been identified and a warrant has been issued for his arrest.  The suspect is described as a white male approximately 28 years old who is 5’10’ with a light beard and was wearing a blue hooded sweatshirt, aviator style sunglasses, light colored blue jeans cuffed at the ankles and black shoes with red shaded shoelaces.  The Rutgers University Police Department is continuing to investigate this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025 or (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Secure all work spaces when not in use;  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Do not prop open exterior doors;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.  You are receiving this Crime Alert message as part of Rutgers University’s commitment to providing campus-area crime information in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act 20 U.S.C. §1092(f), or the Clery Act as it is commonly known. For more information on the Clery Act and why you are receiving this federally mandated Timely Warning, please visit www.ed.gov/admins/lead/safety/campus.html.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  October 10, 2014
37.Sunday October 19th, 2014 :: 11:41 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Sunday, October 19, 2014 at approximately 10:15 PM. This incident occurred on the sidewalk in front of Ford Hall (63 College Avenue, New Brunswick) on the College Avenue Campus. In this incident the victim, a University Student, reported being approached by two males; one of which assaulted him and then removed items of value from his possession. The perpetrators then fled on foot in the direction of Seminary Place. There were no weapons displayed during the commission of this crime. The victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and is being treated at a local hospital.   The description of the perpetrators is limited at this time.  The Rutgers University Police Department is continuing to investigate this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025 or (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  October 19, 2014
38.Tuesday October 28th, 2014 :: 09:11 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers Police Department is investigating an armed robbery which was reported to have occurred on Tuesday, October, 28 2014 at approximately 6:20 PM. This incident was reported to have occurred on Mine Street near the intersection with Union Street in New Brunswick, on the College Avenue Campus. The victim, a University Student, reported that he was approached by the perpetrator while he was walking on Mine Street. The victim stated that the perpetrator demanded he turn over items of value while displaying a handgun. When the victim responded that he did not have anything on his person, the perpetrator fled the area on Mine Street toward Easton Avenue. The victim was not physically injured during the course of this incident.  The perpetrator is described as a heavy-set male with medium complexion, spiked brown hair, with facial hair wearing a white long-sleeve shirt. He was further described as having a deep voice. The perpetrator was reported to have been driving a small white sports utility vehicle (SUV).  The Rutgers University Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025 or (732) 932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at: http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at: http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  October 28, 2014
39.Saturday November 1st, 2014 :: 07:22 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, November 1, 2014 at approximately 2:30 AM. This incident occurred, off-campus, on Plum Street near the intersection with Hamilton Street. In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, reported being approached by three males; one of which displayed a handgun while another assaulted him and then removed items of value from his possession. The perpetrators then fled on foot in an unknown direction. The victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and received treatment at a local hospital.  The description of the perpetrators is limited at this time.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 1, 2014
40.Sunday November 2nd, 2014 :: 12:49 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, November 1, 2014 at approximately 7:46 PM. This incident occurred, off-campus, on Sicard Street near the intersection with Richardson Street. In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, reported being approached by four males adjacent to a private residence on Delafield Street and proceeded to walk with them towards Richardson Street in an attempt to complete a narcotics transaction. While walking on Richardson Street towards Sicard Street one of the individuals displayed a handgun while two others assaulted him and then removed items of value from his possession. The perpetrators then fled on foot towards College Avenue. The victim did not sustain any injuries and did not seek medical attention.  Perpetrator #1 is described as a black male, early 20’s, short dreadlock style hair, wearing a blue zip-up hoodie with a red outer vest.  Perpetrator #2 is described as a black male, early 20’s, dreadlock style hair, wearing a tan Carhartt jacket.  Perpetrator #3 is described as a black male, early 20’s, short dreadlocks, wearing a black Nike zip-up hoodie (white zipper with white “Nike” logo on left chest) along with black pants.  Description of perpetrator #4 is limited at this time.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 1, 2014

41.Thursday November 6th, 2014 :: 08:28 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which occurred on November 6, 2014 at approximately 1:29 AM. In this incident, a male affiliated with Rutgers University, was walking in the area of Delafield and Bristol Street when he was assaulted by four males. The victim was knocked to the ground, assaulted and his personal property was removed from his possession. The assailants then fled in an unknown direction. The victim was treated on scene for minor injuries. There were no weapons used or displayed in this incident.  Suspect descriptions are limited at this time.  Anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time of the incident, is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 6, 2014
42Friday November 7th, 2014 :: 04:43 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   In response to recent robberies in New Brunswick, the New Brunswick Police Department and the Rutgers University Police Department have been working together to increase patrols and is continuing a joint investigation in order to identify the perpetrators. The New Brunswick Police Department has made an arrest of a juvenile suspect. Property from victims in two separate robberies reported over the past month was recovered from the suspect.  The joint investigation into these robberies is ongoing and anyone with information is asked to contact either the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 7, 2014
43.Sunday November 9th, 2014 :: 12:04 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, November 8, 2014 at approximately 1200 AM. This incident occurred on Hamilton Street near the intersection with Hardenbergh Street. In this incident the victim, an affiliated student, reported being approached by two males; one of which assaulted him and then removed items of value from his possession. The perpetrators then fled in a black colored vehicle towards Easton Avenue. The victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and did not seek medical treatment.  The description of the perpetrators as well as their vehicle is limited at this time.  Anyone with information or who may have been in the area at the time is asked to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5218 or the Rutgers Police Department Investigations Unit at 848-932-8025 or 732-932-7211   The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 8, 2014
44.Sunday November 9th, 2014 :: 12:53 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department has announced the arrest of a suspect involved in a robbery that occurred at approximately 12:55 a.m. on Sunday, November 9, 2014 in the area of Plum Street between Hamilton and Somerset Street.  Myles Soni, 18, of Franklin Park has been charged with robbery, aggravated assault, and conspiracy to commit robbery.  In this incident the victim, a Rutgers student, reported that he was walking on Plum Street when he was approached by four males who demanded that he turn over his personal property. The victim was assaulted and items of value were removed from his possession. The victim received non-life threatening injuries and was treated at a local hospital.  Soni was arrested at approximately 1:00 a.m. Sunday morning. Witnesses to the robbery identified him as one of the individuals involved.  The descriptions of the remaining three suspects are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department and the Rutgers University Police Department continue to work together to investigate and patrol student-populated areas in which these recent robberies have occurred. Increased police patrols have been put in place, especially during evening hours, in these areas.  Anyone with additional information regarding this incident is asked to call the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5167 or the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a victim of a crime by taking reasonable precautions:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you.  - Walk in groups when possible.  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://publicsafety.rutgers.edu  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 9, 2014
45. Monday November 10th, 2014 :: 11:07 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating an act of criminal sexual contact which was reported to have occurred on November 10, 2014, on College Avenue between Hamilton Street and Seminary Place at approximately 2:00 PM.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated, reported walking on College Avenue when an unknown male engaged her in conversation and held her hand. The victim rebuffed the male who then touched the victim’s chest. The unknown male then walked away and proceeded on College Avenue towards Hamilton Street.  The perpetrator is described as a dark skinned black male, 20 to 21 years old, approximately 5’6” tall, 180 pounds, with a close “buzz” haircut, and wearing glasses, with a thin black jacket, and a yellow plaid button-up shirt.  The Rutgers University Police Department is continuing to investigate this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at:http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at:http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 10, 2014
46. Tuesday November 11th, 2014 :: 06:03 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   This is an update to the crime alert that was released yesterday. The Rutgers Police Department has made an arrest of the suspect involved in the criminal sexual contact that occurred at approximately 2:00 PM on Monday, November 10, 2014 on College Avenue between Hamilton Street and Seminary Place.  Danwitt D. Jean-Baptiste, 19, of Roselle has been charged with one count of criminal sexual contact. Jean-Baptiste is not affiliated with Rutgers University.  The Rutgers University Police Department is continuing to investigate this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at:http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at:http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 11, 2014
47.Friday November 14th, 2014 :: 11:21 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a burglary which is reported to have occurred on Stone Street near Sicard Street at approximately 7:20 PM on November 14, 2014.  In this incident the resident of the house, who is affiliated, was on an upper floor of the house when he heard several people enter through an unsecured door. The victim stated that the perpetrators came upon him then restrained him with a baseball bat while items of value were removed from the residence. The perpetrators then left the residence and fled the area in a black Toyota Camry. The victim reported no physical injuries.  Descriptions are limited at this time however two of the perpetrators are described as:  • Male, race unknown, 6’6”, approximately 350 pounds, wearing jeans, sneakers and a maroon sweater.  • White male wearing a black NY Mets jacket and having “slicked” back, black hair   The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating the incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department's Detective Bureau at (732) 745-5216.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  Secure points of entry; and  Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 14, 2014
48.Tuesday November 18th, 2014 :: 07:26 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a burglary which is reported to have occurred on November 18, 2014, at the Loree Classroom Building, located at 72 Lipman Drive at approximately 4:00 AM.  In this incident the perpetrator gained entry to the building by forcing open a point of entry. Once inside, he removed items of value before leaving the area in an unknown direction.  The suspect is described as a male, approximately six feet tall, weighing over 200 pounds, with a full moustache, having worn a blue “hoodie” jacket with two white horizontal stripes, blue jeans, and black shoes.  The Rutgers Police Department is actively investigating the incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  -Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  -Secure points of entry; and  -Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 18, 2014
49. Wednesday December 3rd, 2014 :: 05:18 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Tuesday, December 2, 2014 at approximately 7:10 PM. This incident occurred on Central Avenue in the area of Prosper Street.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, was approached by two male perpetrators while on Central Avenue. One of the unknown males then struck the victim in the face before taking his personal property. Both assailants then fled towards the area of Dix Street. No weapons were displayed in this incident and the victim sustained a minor injury.  Descriptions are limited at this time however one perpetrator was described as wearing a navy gray hooded sweatshirt with white lettering.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police Department  December 3, 2014
50. Sunday December 14th, 2014 :: 12:46 p.m. EST
The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating an incident which was reported to have occurred on Sunday, December 14, 2014 at approximately 2:00 AM. This incident occurred on Hamilton Street near the intersection with High Street in New Brunswick. In this incident, witnesses reported observing a physical altercation in the street and that one of the participants fired a weapon into the air. Upon the arrival of the New Brunswick Police Department, all of the participants had fled the area and there were no reported injuries.  The perpetrator who fired a weapon was described as a male wearing a white t-shirt who was reported to have fled from the area on Hamilton Street towards Louis Street in a white vehicle, possibly a Honda Accord.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating the incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department's Detective Bureau at (732) 745-5216.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at: http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at: http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 14, 2014
51.Saturday December 20th, 2014 :: 08:01 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) is investigating a suspicious fire, suspected to be arson, which occurred on Saturday, December 20, 2014, at 1:03 PM at the Allison Road Classroom Building, located at 618 Allison Road, on the Busch Campus in Piscataway.  In this incident, a fire, which started in an unoccupied classroom on the second floor, was extinguished by the building’s fire suppression system. The building was safely evacuated and there were no reported injuries.  The Rutgers University Police Department is actively investigating the incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the RUPD Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  -Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  -Secure points of entry; and  -Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 20, 2014
52.Sunday December 21st, 2014 :: 03:16 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, December 20, 2014 at approximately 10:24 PM. This incident occurred off-campus in the area of Hamilton Street and Woodbridge Street in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, reported that during a prearranged meeting in the city of New Brunswick, he was approached by 2 male perpetrators that demanded he turn over his property while displaying a firearm. The victim was physically assaulted and sustained non-life threatening injuries.  The description of the perpetrators is limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 21, 2014
53. Tuesday December 23rd, 2014 :: 11:53 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Tuesday, December 23, 2014 at approximately 6:45 PM. This incident occurred off-campus in the area of Central Avenue and Prosper Street in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that she was approached by two male perpetrators that demanded she turn over her property while displaying a firearm. The victim was not physically injured and the perpetrators fled the area in an unknown direction.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 23, 2014
54. Thursday December 25th, 2014 :: 10:10 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   A Crime Alert was issued on December 20, 2014 alerting the community about a suspicious fire that occurred at the Allison Road Classroom Building, located at 618 Allison Road, on the Busch Campus in Piscataway. An investigation conducted by the Middlesex County Prosecutors Office, the Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD), and Edison Police Department resulted in the identification and apprehension of the perpetrator. Shayam Sridhar, 21, a former Rutgers student from Edison has been charged with second-degree aggravated arson.  Anyone with additional information regarding this incident is asked to please contact the RUPD Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Secure points of entry; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 25, 2014
55. Tuesday December 30th, 2014 :: 06:44 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating two robberies which were reported to have occurred in the city of New Brunswick.  The first incident occurred on Tuesday, December 30, 2014 at approximately 1:05 AM within an off-campus residence located in the area of Central Avenue and Prosper Street in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with the University, reported that three male perpetrators entered the unsecured residence and displayed a firearm while demanding items of value. The perpetrators were specific in their demands, displaying prior knowledge of the location of valuables within the home. NBPD indicated the presence of narcotics at the scene.  One of the victims was physically assaulted and sustained non-life threatening injuries.  The second incident occurred on Monday, December 29, 2014 at approximately 6:12 PM within an off-campus residence located in the area of Jones Avenue and Townsend Street in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with the University, reported that three male perpetrators entered his unsecured residence and displayed a firearm while demanding narcotics. Prior to leaving the residence, the perpetrators removed several items of value and a small quantity of narcotics. The victim was not physically injured during this incident.  For both incidents the perpetrators fled the area in an unknown direction and their descriptions are limited at this time. It is unknown if the incidents are related.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating these incidents and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Secure points of entry; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 30, 2014
56. Friday January 2nd, 2015 :: 02:37 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a burglary which occurred at 145 College Avenue (Brower Commons) between 12:00 PM on December 31, 2014 and 9:30 AM on January 2, 2015.  In this incident the perpetrator(s) gained entry by way of force through an exterior point of entry. Information on valuables taken or descriptions of the perpetrator(s) is limited at this time.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Secure points of entry to buildings and all work spaces when not in use;  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Do not prop open exterior doors;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  January 2, 2015
57.Sunday January 25th, 2015 :: 10:19 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating two robberies which were reported to have occurred off-campus in the city of New Brunswick.  The first incident occurred on Thursday, January 22, 2015 at approximately 7:45 PM on Brookside Avenue between Freeman Street and Louis Street.  In this incident the victim, who is unaffiliated with Rutgers University, reported that while in the alley adjacent to his residence, he was approached by two male perpetrators who physically assaulted him and removed an item of value. The perpetrators fled down Brookside Avenue towards Freeman Street. No weapons were displayed in this incident and the victim sustained non-life threatening injuries.  The second incident occurred on Friday, January 23, 2015 at approximately 11:58 PM in the area of Bristol Street and Delafield Street.  In this incident the victim, who is unaffiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he was approached by four to five male perpetrators, one of which grabbed his cell phone from his hand and fled down Bristol Street towards Guilden Street. The victim chased after the perpetrators and he was physically assaulted when he confronted them. The perpetrators removed additional items of value from the victim and fled down Guilden Street towards Prosper Street. No weapons were displayed in this incident and the victim sustained non-life threatening injuries.  The descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time and it is unknown if these incidents are related.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating these incidents and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Secure points of entry; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  January 25, 2015
58. Sunday February 1st, 2015 :: 10:29 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, January 31, 2015 at approximately 7:46 PM. This incident occurred off-campus on Harvey Street between French Street and Somerset Street in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, reported that he was approached by three male perpetrators, one of which displayed a knife. The perpetrators removed items of value from the victim and fled down Harvey Street towards Somerset Street. The victim was not physically injured during this incident.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 1, 2015
59. Tuesday February 3rd, 2015 :: 02:19 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Monday, February 2, 2015 at approximately 11:10 PM. This incident occurred off-campus on Morrell Street between Ray and Bartlett Streets in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with the University, allowed two individuals into their off-campus house for a prearranged meeting. Upon being allowed into the residence the perpetrators displayed a firearm before removing items of value and leaving the area. The victims were not physically injured during this incident.  The perpetrators are described as one light skinned black male in his early twenties wearing a blue hat, burgundy coat, and a tan back-pack and one dark skinned black male wearing a green trench coat, white hat, and tank top with tattoos across his chest.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 3, 2015
60. Wednesday February 4th, 2015 :: 11:34 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a burglary which was reported to have occurred on Wednesday, February 4, 2015 at approximately 10:16 PM. This incident occurred off-campus on Courtland Street between Guilden and Delafield Streets in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with the University, were inside a residence when three perpetrators entered through an unsecured door. Upon entering the residence handguns were displayed and a demand for marijuana was made by the perpetrators. The perpetrators then fled the area with items of value. The victims were not physically injured during this incident. Responding police units reported discovering signs of drug usage inside the residence.  The perpetrators are described as three dark skinned black males, approximately 6’0”, in their early twenties and wearing dark clothing. Two of the perpetrators were wearing scarves and one was wearing a mask. They fled the area in an unknown direction.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  § Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  § Avoid isolated or dark areas;  § Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  § Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 4, 2015
61. Saturday February 7th, 2015 :: 01:16 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a criminal sexual contact which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, February 7, 2015 at approximately 2:00 AM. This incident occurred on a Rutgers University bus that was traveling from the College Avenue Campus towards the Cook/Douglass Campus.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that as she was a passenger on the bus, she was inappropriately touched along her inner thigh by a male perpetrator. A similar act by the same male perpetrator was reported by the victim to have occurred on Hamilton Street as she walking towards the bus stop.  The victim was not physically injured during this incident and the perpetrator was last observed exiting the bus on George Street between New Street and Morris Street.  The perpetrator is described as a short and stocky male of Hispanic descent with a bald head and no facial hair, and wearing a black sweatshirt.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 7, 2015
62. Monday February 9th, 2015 :: 04:46 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a criminal sexual contact which was reported to have occurred on Monday, February 9, 2015 at approximately 10:30 AM. This incident occurred in the first floor stairwell of the University Center Parking Deck located at 28 Easton Avenue in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that a male perpetrator intentionally struck her on the buttocks with his hand as she was walking to her vehicle. The victim was not physically injured during this incident and the perpetrator was last seen walking down Easton Avenue in the direction of Hamilton Street.  The perpetrator is described as a 5’6” to 5’7” black male with no facial hair and wearing a puffy olive green North Face style jacket with blue jeans and wearing a brown flat cap.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 9, 2015
63. Tuesday February 10th, 2015 :: 05:09 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred on Monday, February 9, 2015 at approximately 10:40 PM. This incident occurred on Nichol Avenue between George Street and Suydam Street adjacent to the Cook/Douglass Campus.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, was struck in the leg by a plastic pellet from an airsoft gun. The victim sustained a minor injury and refused medical attention. It is believed that the pellet was discharged from a passing vehicle traveling on Nichol Avenue towards Suydam Street. The vehicle was described as a black four door sedan occupied by two males. No further description is available at this time.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 10, 2015
64. Saturday February 14th, 2015 :: 12:25 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, February 14, 2015 at approximately 4:30 AM. This incident occurred on Morrell Street between Wyckoff and Sicard Streets.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, was approached by three males following a verbal altercation which took place during a party at an off campus residence. One of the perpetrators stabbed the victim who sustained non-life threatening injuries. The perpetrators then fled the area in an unknown direction. The victim then proceeded to a nearby off campus residence and was then transported to a local area hospital for treatment.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 14, 2015
65. Thursday February 19th, 2015 :: 08:05 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   An arrest has been made in reference to the February 3, 2015 off-campus crime alert issued by the Rutgers University Police Department which detailed the ongoing investigation by the New Brunswick Police Department of a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Monday, February 2, 2015 at approximately 11:10 PM. This incident occurred off-campus on Morrell Street between Ray and Bartlett Streets in New Brunswick.  Jerome Powell of Camden, New Jersey, has been charged in relation to this robbery and is currently in custody in Camden County. The investigation is ongoing and the New Brunswick Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 19, 2015
66. Monday February 23rd, 2015 :: 07:45 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating two robberies which were reported to have occurred off-campus in the city of New Brunswick.  The first incident occurred on Sunday, February 22, 2015 at approximately 10:00 PM on Hamilton Street between High Street and Division Street.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, reported that following a knock at her residence, she opened the front door to 3 male perpetrators that demanded items of value while displaying a handgun. The perpetrators removed valuables from the home and then fled the area in an unknown direction. The victim was not physically injured during this incident. NBPD located marijuana on scene and the victim alleged that her house was targeted because her roommates were dealing marijuana from the residence. Two of the residents were charged with drug offenses in connection to this incident.  The second incident occurred on Monday, February 23, 2015 at approximately 4:24 PM at a convenience store located on Hamilton Street between High Street and Division Street.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, reported that two male perpetrators entered the store and displayed a handgun while demanding items of value. The victim was not physically injured and the perpetrators removed cash from the register and fled the area toward High Street.  The descriptions of the perpetrators for both incidents are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 23, 2015
67. Tuesday February 24th, 2015 :: 07:43 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   A second arrest has been made in reference to the February 3, 2015 off-campus crime alert issued by the Rutgers University Police Department which detailed the ongoing investigation by the New Brunswick Police Department of a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Monday, February 2, 2015 at approximately 11:10 PM. This incident occurred off-campus on Morrell Street between Ray and Bartlett Streets in New Brunswick.  Devonta Bethea of Camden, New Jersey has been charged in connection to this robbery. The investigation is ongoing and the New Brunswick Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  February 24, 2015
68. Saturday March 14th, 2015 :: 12:08 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick City Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, March 14, 2015 at approximately 2:47 AM. This incident occurred off-campus on the platform of the New Brunswick Train Station located on Albany Street between Easton Avenue and George Street.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, reported that he was approached by three male perpetrators and one female perpetrator that assaulted him and removed items of value from his possession. The perpetrators exited the platform and fled the area in an unknown direction. No weapons were displayed in this incident and the victim sustained non-life threatening injuries and was treated at a local hospital.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  March 14, 2015
69. Sunday March 22nd, 2015 :: 01:09 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a shooting which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, March 21, 2015 at approximately 10:20 PM. This incident occurred off-campus in the area of Mason and Pine Streets in New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with the University, sustained an injury from gunfire and was transported to a local area hospital for treatment.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  § Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  § Avoid isolated or dark areas;  § Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  § Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  March 22, 2015
70. Tuesday March 24th, 2015 :: 05:20 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Tuesday, March 24, 2015 at approximately 12:11 AM. This incident occurred within an off-campus residence located on Robinson Street between Hamilton Street and Central Avenue.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with the University, reported that a male perpetrator entered their unsecured residence and displayed a firearm while demanding items of value. The perpetrator was specific in his demands, displaying prior knowledge of the presence of valuables within the home. The victims were not physically injured during this incident and the perpetrator fled the residence in an unknown direction. NBPD reported signs of marijuana use at the residence.  The description of the perpetrator is limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Allow in only guests who are known to you;  ♣ Secure points of entry; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  March 24, 2015
71. Friday April 10th, 2015 :: 04:36 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Friday, April 10, 2015 at approximately 12:45 AM. This incident occurred within an off-campus residence located on Huntington Street between College Avenue and Sicard Street.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with the University, reported that three male perpetrators entered their unsecured residence and physically assaulted one of the victims while demanding items of value. The perpetrators fled the area in two vehicles and were last observed traveling down Huntington Street toward Easton Avenue. No weapons were displayed in this incident and the victim sustained non-life threatening injuries. The incident may be connected to recent drug activity.  The descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Allow in only guests who are known to you;  ♣ Secure points of entry; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 10, 2015
72. Thursday April 16th, 2015 :: 12:19 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating an act of criminal sexual contact which was reported to have occurred on April 15, 2015, inside Alexander Library on College Avenue at approximately 9:20 PM  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated, reported being inside of a second floor women’s restroom and observing a male enter the room. The victim alerted a friend who then entered the restroom and witnessed the perpetrator exposing himself. The perpetrator then touched the second victim on the buttock as he fled the area.  The perpetrator is described as an Asian Indian male, 18 to 21 years old, 5 foot four inches tall, wearing blue jeans, a light blue shirt with white pin stripes, and black wire rimmed glasses.  The Rutgers University Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at: http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at :http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 15, 2015
73. Monday April 20th, 2015 :: 09:45 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on April 20, 2015 at the intersection of Road One and Cedar Lane in Edison Township at approximately7:30 PM.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated, reported walking near the intersection of Road One and Cedar Lane when she was approached by two juvenile females who pushed her to the ground and then sprayed her with mace. One of the perpetrators then removed the victim’s cell phone from her pocket before they both fled down Road One towards Road Three. The victim was transported to a local area hospital with non-life threatening injuries.  The perpetrators are described as:  - Heavy set African American juvenile female wearing a green jacket and having shoulder length hair dyed blonde.  - Thin African American juvenile female.  The Rutgers University Police Department is continuing to investigate this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department's Detective Bureau at (848) 932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas and  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at: http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at: http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 20, 2015
74. Thursday April 23rd, 2015 :: 04:16 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Thursday, April 23, 2015 at approximately 1:47 AM. This incident occurred within an off-campus residence located on Guilden Street between Bristol and Prosper Streets.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with the University, reported hearing voices outside of their residence. Upon checking the alleyway next to the residence they discovered three perpetrators wearing masks. One of the perpetrators then used the handle of a handgun to strike one of the victims before they entered the residence and demanded items of value. They then fled the area down Guilden Street. NBPD reported signs of marijuana use at the residence. The victim who was assaulted sustained non-life threatening injuries.  The description of the perpetrators is limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Allow in only guests who are known to you;  ♣ Secure points of entry; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 23, 2015
75. Monday April 27th, 2015 :: 04:46 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating an aggravated assault and a robbery which were reported to have occurred off-campus in the city of New Brunswick.  The first incident occurred on Saturday, April 25, 2015 at approximately 7:30 PM in the area of Delafield Street and Courtland Street.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he and his friends engaged in a verbal altercation with a group of fifteen males who were walking. During the encounter, the victim was punched and received a non-life threatening injury which required treatment at a local hospital.  The second incident occurred on Sunday, April 26, 2015 at approximately 11:29 PM within an off-campus residence located on Prosper Street between Stone Street and Easton Avenue.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that three male perpetrators entered their residence after the front door was opened by one of the victims in response to a knock at the door. One of the perpetrators displayed a firearm and a second had a baseball bat, while demanding items of value including marijuana. The perpetrators removed cash and marijuana from the residence and then fled the area in an unknown direction. The victims were not physically injured during this incident.  The descriptions of the perpetrators for both incidents are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating these incidents and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Allow in only guests who are known to you;  ♣ Secure points of entry; and  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 27, 2015
76. Thursday April 30th, 2015 :: 05:04 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on Thursday, April 30, 2015 at approximately 2:11 AM in the area of Louis Street and Central Avenue.  In this incident the victims, who are affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that they were walking in the area when they were approached by four male perpetrators. The perpetrators each displayed a knife and demanded their wallets. The perpetrators removed items of value from the victims and fled the area down Central Avenue towards Dix Street. The victims were not physically injured during this incident.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time, however they were described as four black males, approximately 15-18 years of age, with thin builds, and approximately 5’10” to 6’ in height.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating these incidents and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  April 30, 2015
77. Tuesday May 19th, 2015 :: 05:18 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery which occurred off-campus in the city of New Brunswick and in a separate incident, the Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) is investigating a burglary to a university owned building.  The first incident occurred on Monday, May 18, 2015 at approximately 10:53 PM in the area of Prosper Street and Easton Avenue.  In this incident the victim, who is unaffiliated with the university, reported that she was approached by a male perpetrator who attempted to grab her purse. When the victim resisted, the perpetrator displayed a firearm and removed the victim’s property. The victim was not physically injured during this incident and the perpetrator entered a white SUV or van and fled the area down Easton Avenue towards Hamilton Street.  The description of the perpetrator is limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The second incident occurred on Tuesday, May 19, 2015, at Records Hall, located at 620 George Street in New Brunswick, at approximately 2:50 AM. In this incident, the perpetrator(s) gained entry to the building through an unsecured door and caused property damage within.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours;  -Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Avoid isolated or dark areas;  - Secure points of entry to buildings and all work spaces when not in use;  - Do not prop open exterior doors;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 19, 2015
78. Tuesday May 26th, 2015 :: 05:23 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a criminal sexual contact which was reported to have occurred on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 at approximately 10:25 AM on College Avenue near Bishop Place in the city of New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that a male perpetrator approached her on the sidewalk and hugged her while touching her on the buttocks.  The perpetrator is described as a 5’5” male of middle eastern descent in his mid 20s, with a medium build, with shiny black shoulder length hair parted in the middle, and wearing a dark grey v-neck t-shirt with jeans.  The victim was not physically injured during this incident.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 26, 2015
79. Wednesday May 27th, 2015 :: 04:47 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   A Crime Alert was issued on May 26, 2015 alerting the community about an act of criminal sexual contact that occurred on College Avenue near Bishop Place in the city of New Brunswick. Additional information provided by the victim indicates the incident was not an act of criminal sexual contact. An investigation conducted by the Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) resulted in the positive identification of the perpetrator. The investigation is ongoing and the RUPD would like to thank those members of the community who provided information during the course of the investigation.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  May 27, 2015
80. Saturday July 18th, 2015 :: 07:52 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred on Saturday, July 18, 2015 at approximately 1:45 AM in the area of 18 College Avenue, New Brunswick. In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he and his friends engaged in a physical altercation with a group of other individuals who were also in the area. During the encounter, the victim received a non-life threatening injury which required treatment at a local hospital. Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating these incidents and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  -Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  -Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  -Avoid isolated or dark areas and  -Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  July 18, 2015
81. Wednesday July 22nd, 2015 :: 07:49 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a burglary which occurred at the Bishop House, located at 115 College Avenue in New Brunswick, between the hours of 6:45 PM on July 21, 2015 and 8:30 AM on July 22, 2015.  In this incident, the perpetrator(s) gained entry to the building through an unsecured window and entered a locked office by way of force to remove items of value. The building was unoccupied at the time of this incident.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Secure points of entry to buildings and all work spaces when not in use;  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Do not prop open exterior doors;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  July 22, 2015
82. Sunday August 30th, 2015 :: 05:35 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred on Sunday, August 30, 2015 at approximately 12:40 AM in the area of Hamilton Street and Hartwell Street.  In this incident the victim was walking in the area and reported being struck in the left arm by an unknown projectile discharged from a passing vehicle. The vehicle was described as a dark colored older model four door sedan occupied by four male perpetrators, which fled the area in an unknown direction. The descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The victim is affiliated with Rutgers University and received a non-life threatening injury and received treatment at a local hospital.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  August 30, 2015
83. Sunday August 30th, 2015 :: 11:53 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a sexual assault which was reported to have occurred on Sunday, August 30, 2015 at approximately 2:46 AM in the area of Richardson Street and Wyckoff Street.  In this incident, the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that while walking in the area, a male perpetrator attempted to engage her in conversation while walking behind her. The perpetrator followed the victim into a nearby backyard and committed an act of sexual assault with his hand, before fleeing the area towards Easton Avenue.  No weapons were displayed and the victim was transported to a local area hospital, where she was treated and released.  While the description of the perpetrator is limited at this time, he was described as a black male, wearing tan shorts and a dark colored shirt with white dots.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  August 30, 2015
84. Tuesday September 29th, 2015 :: 08:36 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department is investigating a burglary which occurred at the Cook Office Building, located at 55 Dudley Road in New Brunswick, between the hours of 6:00 PM on September 28, 2015 and 6:45 AM on September 29, 2015.  In this incident, the perpetrator(s) forced entry into the building and accessed an office to remove an item of value. The building was unoccupied at the time of this incident.  The Rutgers University Police Department asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, to contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at (848)932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Secure points of entry to buildings and all work spaces when not in use;  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Do not prop open exterior doors;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  September 29, 2015
85. Sunday October 4th, 2015 :: 10:07 a.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred on Sunday, October 4, 2015 at approximately 1:53 AM behind 18 College Avenue, New Brunswick.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he and his friends engaged in a physical altercation with another group who were also in the area. During the encounter, the victim was assaulted with a sharp object and received a non-life threatening injury which required treatment at a local hospital.  One of the perpetrators was described as a white male, 24-26 years of age, with a beard and a ponytail pulled back into a bun, and wearing a “varsity” style jacket.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas;and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  October 4, 2015
86. Friday October 9th, 2015 :: 01:30 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred on Friday, October 9, 2015 at approximately 2:10 AM at the intersection of Easton Avenue and Mine Street.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he was struck once in the face with a closed fist. The perpetrator then fled the area and the victim was transported to a local area hospital where he was treated for a non-life threatening injury.  Description of the perpetrator is limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217. The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  ♣ Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  ♣ Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  ♣ Avoid isolated or dark areas; and  ♣ Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  October 9, 2015
87. Sunday October 18th, 2015 :: 01:10 p.m. EDT
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating an armed robbery, which was reported to have occurred on Saturday October 17th, 2015 at approximately 11:55 PM in the area of Somerset Street and Maple Street.  In this incident the victim, who is unaffiliated with Rutgers University, reported that she was approached by the perpetrator who brandished a small knife and then snatched the victim’s purse from her hand. The perpetrator then fled the area on foot heading east on Somerset Street. The victim was not physically injured as a result of this incident.  Description of the perpetrator is limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas; and  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours. For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  October 18th, 2015
88. Friday October 30th, 2015 :: 08:03 p.m. EDT
Members of the Rutgers Community:   Earlier this evening, the Rutgers Police Department responded to a report of an aggravated assault which was reported to have occurred in the area of the Mettler Residence Hall on the College Avenue Campus. Rutgers Police Officers quickly responded and upon their arrival found two victims who have both been transported to a local area hospital and are currently receiving treatment.  The perpetrator of this assault has been taken into custody by the Rutgers Police Department.  The Rutgers University Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information or why may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department’s Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  October 30, 2015
89. Saturday October 31st, 2015 :: 01:34 p.m. EDT
Attention Members of the Rutgers Community,   The following is an update to yesterday’s emergency notification: The Rutgers Emergency Communications Center received a 911 call at approximately 6:30 PM on October 30, 2015, reporting an aggravated assault in progress inside of the Mettler Hall lobby on College Avenue. Responding patrol officers located one affiliated and one non-affiliated victim who were both transported to the hospital for treatment where they remain in stable condition. Within minutes of arriving members of the Rutgers University Police Department initiated an emergency alert to the members of the Rutgers community and located the suspect within his Mettler Hall room where he was taken into custody. A confrontation in the lobby between the victims and the suspect precipitated the assault. The suspect assaulted both victims with a knife. The suspect, Rutgers student, Daniel J. Leandry, 18 years old, of Garfield, New Jersey, has been charged with Attempted Murder, 2 counts of Aggravated Assault with a weapon, and Possession of a Weapon for Unlawful Purposes. He will be remanded to the Middlesex County Adult Correctional facility in lieu of $735,000.00 bail.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  Rutgers University Police  October 31, 2015
90. Sunday November 1st, 2015 :: 01:49 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred on George Street between Huntington Street and Bishop Place on the College Avenue Campus. This incident was reported to have occurred at approximately 11:55 PM on Saturday, October 31, 2015.  In this incident, the victim, an affiliated student, reported being approached by a male who displayed a sharp object and demanded the contents of the victim’s wallet.  The victim was not physically injured during this incident and the perpetrator fled the area in an unknown direction.  The perpetrator is described as a white male , approximately 22 – 23 years old, with blonde hair, approximately 6’ 2” tall, wearing a collared grey sweater and black pants.  The Rutgers Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department’s Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  - Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours;  - Remain alert and aware of people and circumstances around you;  - Secure points of entry to buildings and all work spaces when not in use;  - Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community at http://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 1, 2015
91. Saturday November 14th, 2015 :: 02:53 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery, which was reported to have occurred on Saturday November 14th, 2015 at approximately 1:20 AM in the area of Nichol Avenue and Suydam Street.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he was approached by two perpetrators, one of whom brandished a BB gun and demanded items of value. The perpetrators then fled the area in a gold colored vehicle. The victim was not physically injured as a result of this incident.  Both perpetrators were described as males wearing dark hoodies with dark pants with one having a white bandana around his neck and his hair in a ponytail.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas; and  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 14th, 2015
92. Thursday November 19th, 2015 :: 01:25 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery, which was reported to have occurred on Wednesday, November 18th, 2015 at approximately 10:55 PM in the area of Nichol Avenue and Handy Street.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he was approached by three perpetrators, one of whom displayed a handgun and demanded items of value. The perpetrators then fled the area on foot towards Jones Avenue. The victim was not physically injured as a result of this incident.  The perpetrators were described as follows: one male wearing a black jacket with red accents, the second male 5’7” inches tall with dread locks wearing an orange jacket, and the third male wearing all black clothing.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas;  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 19th, 2015
93. Thursday November 19th, 2015 :: 03:26 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) is investigating a robbery, which was reported to have occurred on Thursday, November 19th, 2015 at approximately 2:25 AM on Senior Street between Wyckoff Street and Easton Avenue.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated with Rutgers University, reported that he was approached by two perpetrators, one of whom displayed a handgun and demanded items of value. They then fled the area on foot. The victim was not physically injured as a result of this incident.  The perpetrators were described as two males, 5’8” to5’10” in height and wearing black hoodie jackets.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas;  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website athttp://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  November 19th, 2015
94. Thursday December 10th, 2015 :: 08:45 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers Police Department is currently investigating a robbery which is reported to have occurred on December 10, 2015, at approximately 7:00 PM near the University greenhouses located off of Dudley Road behind Lot 98A on the Cook Campus.  In this incident the victim, who is affiliated, reported that while he was walking behind the greenhouses he encountered several males who demanded items of value. The victim refused to comply and was struck and knocked to the ground. The perpetrators then fled in an unknown direction. The victim sustained minor injuries as a result of this incident and was transported to a local area hospital for treatment. There were no weapons observed during this incident.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The Rutgers Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas;  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  The Rutgers University Police Department provides escorts to students, faculty, and staff upon request. The escorts provide our community with personalized service to their vehicles, campus residence, or the University's mass transit system. In order to request a security escort we ask that an individual contact the police communications center at 732-932-7211.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 10, 2015
95. Saturday December 12th, 2015 :: 11:09 a.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) has three incidents of robbery to report, each of which occurred on Saturday, December 12, 2015.  In the first incident the New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred at approximately 1:13 AM on Morrell Street between Sicard and Wyckoff Streets. In this incident the victim, who is affiliated, reported that he was approached by two perpetrators, one of whom displayed a handgun and demanded items of value before fleeing the area on foot. The victim was not physically injured as a result of this incident.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time to one black male wearing a black jacket with a heavy build and a second black male having a beard and a slim build.  In the second incident, the Rutgers Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred at approximately 2:45 AM. This incident occurred on Mine Street near the intersection with Easton Avenue in the City of New Brunswick. In this incident the two victims, who are not affiliated, reported that they were approached by one unknown perpetrator who struck them with his fists and then fled the area with items of value, following a foot pursuit by an RUPD officer who was in the area. The victims sustained minor injuries but declined medical attention.  The perpetrator is described as a light skinned black male, 18 to 20 years old, wearing a white snap-back baseball hat, a blue faded hooded sweatshirt and jeans.  In the third incident, the New Brunswick Police Department is investigating a robbery which was reported to have occurred at approximately 3 AM at the intersection of Nichol Avenue and Handy Street in the City of New Brunswick. In this incident the victim, who is affiliated, was approached by two males who offered to sell the victim marijuana. Upon the victim’s refusal the two perpetrators displayed handguns and forcibly removed items of value before fleeing the area on foot. The victim was not physically injured as a result of this incident.  Descriptions of the perpetrators are limited at this time.  The New Brunswick Police Department and the Rutgers University Police Department are actively investigating these incidents and ask that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217 or the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas;  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  The Rutgers University Police Department provides escorts to students, faculty, and staff upon request. The escorts provide our community with personalized service to their vehicles, campus residence, or the University's mass transit system. In order to request a security escort we ask that an individual contact the police communications center at 732-932-7211.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 12, 2015
96. Saturday December 12th, 2015 :: 11:19 a.m. EST
Dear Rutgers University – New Brunswick Community Members,   In light of last evening’s robberies that were described in a Crime Alert, the Rutgers University Police Department (RUPD) has initiated a strategic patrol plan which includes the addition of RUPD officers in the 2nd, 5th and 6th wards of New Brunswick. Therefore, beginning tonight you will see an increased public safety presence adjacent to the College Avenue and Cook / Douglass Campuses. The investigation into the three robberies that occurred last evening is on-going and we are coordinating investigative efforts with the New Brunswick Police Department. Lastly, the RUPD continues to provide security escorts upon request and the phone number to request that service is (732)932-7211. Should you choose to request this service, please plan a few minutes ahead so our public safety personnel have ample time to meet you at your location.   Sincerely,  Kenneth Cop  Executive Director of Public Safety  Chief of University Police  Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
97. Sunday December 13th, 2015 :: 10:17 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department (NBPD) and the Rutgers University Police Department are investigating a robbery, which was reported to have occurred on Sunday, December 13, 2015 at approximately 7:55 PM at the Park Convenience Store located at 53 Commercial Avenue.  In this incident two perpetrators entered the store and demanded money from the store employee after displaying a handgun and a knife. Both perpetrators immediately fled the store when a customer entered the store during the course of the robbery. They were last seen west on Commercial Avenue. Neither the victim nor the witness was physically injured as a result of this incident.  The perpetrators were described as:  -One male wearing a black jacket, gray hoodie covering his face, blue jeans, black gloves, and black sneakers.  -One male wearing a puffy red jacket, black face mask, blue jeans, gray hat, black gloves, and white sneakers.  Both the New Brunswick Police Department and the Rutgers Police Department are actively investigating this incident and ask that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217 or the Rutgers Police Department Detective Bureau at 848-932-8025.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas;  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  The Rutgers University Police Department provides escorts to students, faculty, and staff upon request. The escorts provide our community with personalized service to their vehicles, campus residence, or the University's mass transit system. In order to request a security escort we ask that an individual contact the police communications center at 732-932-7211.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 13, 2015
98. Saturday December 26th, 2015 :: 04:11 p.m. EST
Attention Rutgers Community:   The New Brunswick Police Department is currently investigating a shooting which is reported to have occurred on December 26, 2015, at approximately 12:15 AM on Harvey Street between Somerset and French Streets.  In this incident the victim, who is not affiliated, reported that while he was walking on Harvey Street a car pulled alongside him and the passenger called out to him. The passenger then exited the vehicle and chased the victim while firing a handgun at him. The perpetrator then fled towards Somerset Street. The victim was shot twice through the lower leg and was transported to a local area hospital where he is expected to fully recover from his injuries.   The perpetrator is described as a light skinned black male with shoulder length dread locks. The vehicle is described as an older model grey two door Honda.  The New Brunswick Police Department is actively investigating this incident and asks that anyone with information, or who may have been in the area at the time, contact the New Brunswick Police Department Detective Bureau at 732-745-5217.  The Rutgers University Police Department reminds you that you can reduce your chances of being a crime victim by taking reasonable precautions, including:  • Immediately report suspicious activity to local law enforcement;  • Remaining alert and aware of the people and circumstances around you;  • Avoid isolated or dark areas;  • Walking in groups when traveling during late night hours.  The Rutgers University Police Department provides escorts to students, faculty, and staff upon request. The escorts provide our community with personalized service to their vehicles, campus residence, or the University's mass transit system. In order to request a security escort we ask that an individual contact the police communications center at 732-932-7211.  For more crime prevention information please visit the Rutgers Public Safety website at http://rupd.rutgers.edu/crimetips.shtml.  Follow the Rutgers Police Department on Nixle for regular updates on issues impacting your community athttp://local.nixle.com/rutgers-police-department/.   Authority:  Chief Kenneth Cop  December 26, 2015
