Updated Campus Crime Alert 2014–02–12 UPDATE: An arrest has been made in the robbery of a University of Oregon student at the UO’s Baker Downtown Center this morning. Eugene Police arrested Valora June Rivera, 44 of Eugene, near 11th Avenue and High Street around 11:00 a.m. Rivera was charged with second-degree robbery and second-degree criminal trespass, and transported to Lane County Jail. Rivera had been issued a letter of trespass from university property in October 2013, adding trespassing to the robbery charge. Police did not recover a weapon from the suspect or in the immediate vicinity. ORIGINAL ALERT: A University of Oregon student has reported that she was robbed in a parking lot just east of the Baker Downtown Center near 10th Avenue and Mill Street at about 8:00 Wednesday morning. The student reports she was sitting in her car in university lot 1D, when she was approached by a woman who was walking south down the alley to the east of the Baker Center. The woman started a conversation with the student, but then claimed that she needed money and threatened the student, while turning to reveal what appeared to be the handle (or “grip”) of a gun in an outside jacket pocket. The student gave her a small amount of cash and the suspect fled south on foot down the alley. The student described the suspect as a black woman in her mid-40s to early 50s, between 5-foot-2 and 5-foot-6, medium build, with light skin, graying tight curly shoulder-length hair, wearing a dark, mid-thigh-length jacket and dark pants, and carrying a red umbrella. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call Eugene Police at 541-682-5111 or UOPD at 541- 346-2919. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–02–21 A University of Oregon student has reported that he was robbed on Alder Street near 16th Avenue, at around 1:00 a.m. Friday. The student reports he was walking south on the sidewalk on the west side of Alder Street, south of 16th Avenue, when he was approached by two white males. One man grabbed the student’s arms from behind while the other threatened to hit the student and demanded his wallet. The student handed over his wallet, and the man also grabbed the student’s cell phone, and ordered the student to run away. The student fled to campus. The student described the man who made the threat as white, college-age, with a muscular build, about 5-foot-11 with short, straight, brown hair and facial stubble, wearing a dark long-sleeved sweatshirt. No description of the second suspect was made; assailants’ direction of travel was unknown. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call Eugene Police at 541-682-5111 or UOPD at 541- 346-2919. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–02–24 A University of Oregon student has reported that he was assaulted in a stairwell at the Living Learning Center South residence hall on the UO campus between 1:00-2:00 a.m. Sunday. The student reports that as he was descending the east stairwell, he was struck in the back of the head, and then held down by a white, college-aged male as another white, college-aged male hit and kicked the student. The suspects did not attempt to take anything from the student, but left him on the ground and continued down the stairs. No further suspect description was made. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call UOPD at 541-346-2919. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–04–10 Please note this message may contain information that some may find upsetting. This information is provided in cooperation with the Eugene Police Department. The University of Oregon Police Department has received information regarding a report to Eugene Police that a man was drugged and sexually assaulted early Monday, April 7, near the UO campus. The victim (who is not affiliated with the UO) said he met three men and a woman at Cowfish, a dance club and bar in downtown Eugene at 62 W. Broadway St. He said he accepted a ride home from the group around 2:00 a.m. He then reports the group took him to the Pioneer Cemetery (located north of 18th Avenue and west of University Street) where he was sexually assaulted. The victim describes the assailants as follows: a white male, about 30 years old, about 5-foot-10, with a “chunky” build and brown, spiky hair, wearing something orange; a white male of unknown age, about 5-foot-6, with a “chunky, pear-shaped” build, wearing a blond wig, red fishnet stockings, and a black or gray jacket; a third male without known description; and a white female, about 30 years old, about 5-foot-6, with blond hair cut in an “a-line,” bob style, wearing gold underwear. The vehicle was described as a gold-colored, four-door sedan with leather or vinyl interior. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call Eugene Police at 541-682-5111. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police. uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–04–15 A University of Oregon student has reported that he was robbed on Kincaid Street between 13th and 14th avenues in the early morning Saturday, April 12. The student and an acquaintance report he was walking south on the sidewalk on Kincaid Street, south of 13th Avenue, when three or four black males came out of a red Mustang car, assaulted him, took his phone, returned to the car and drove away. The victim and his friend report having a verbal exchange with the men in the vehicle shortly before the alleged robbery. No specific suspect description or direction of travel was available. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call UOPD Detective Sergeant Kathy Flynn at 541- 346-9694. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–05–18 Please note this message may contain information that some may find upsetting. The University of Oregon Police Department has received information regarding two incidents near campus involving alleged felony crimes. In one incident, a report alleged that a female UO student was drugged at the Delta Tau Delta fraternity, 1886 University Street, on May 10. Giving someone a drug to disable the person is aggravated assault, a felony crime. In a separate incident, the university learned that a woman not affiliated with the UO was allegedly sexually assaulted at an unknown location and time Friday evening May 16 or early Saturday May 17, and was later found disoriented on the south side of 18th Avenue near University Street early Saturday morning. Further details were not available. Suspects have not been identified. These incidents are unresolved. Anyone with information about these or similar incidents should call Eugene Police at 541-682-5111 for offcampus incidents, or UOPD at 541-346-2919 for on-campus or UO-affiliated incidents. Updates regarding these incidents, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–05–24 UPDATE: In the Eugene Police report for the incident, the victim described the suspect as a black male in his early 20s, about 5-foot-9 with a slight build, with dark, curly hair and no facial hair; the woman who may have been with the suspect was described as a white female in her early 20s with brown hair. The victim said the suspect ran north on Alder Street. ORIGINAL ALERT: A University of Oregon student has reported to Eugene Police that he was robbed on Alder Street between 16th and 17th avenues in the early morning Saturday, May 24. The student said he was walking south on the west sidewalk on Alder Street, south of 16th Avenue near the Campbell Club cooperative at about 1:00 a.m., when he was approached by a man and woman who assaulted him, took his phone, sunglasses and wallet, and ran away. A detailed suspect description was not available. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call Eugene Police at 541-682-5111. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police .uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–08–09 FROM THE EUGENE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND UO POLICE DEPARTMENT: A University of Oregon student has reported to Eugene Police that three men tried to force her into a vehicle on Garden Avenue near Millrace Drive, north of Franklin Boulevard near UO property, late Friday, August 8. The student said that around 10:30 p.m. Friday, three unknown men tried to pull her into a red “older” two-door hatchback. She escaped to a public location and called Eugene Police. She described the men as “middle eastern,” in their 20s, with medium builds. One was seen wearing a white and blue striped shirt. Their direction of travel after her escape was unknown, and no further suspect description was available. This incident is unresolved and investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call Eugene Police at 541-682-5111. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–10–31 Please note this message may contain information that some may find upsetting. This incident occurred off-campus and away from UO property, but is nearby, involves a student, and is in an area frequented by students. UPDATE FROM EUGENE POLICE: Since the first report, police have received two additional reports from the same general area of Kinsrow, around the same time: 3:30 a.m. In one report, the female awoke to see the suspect standing in her bedroom. She challenged him and he left. She said nothing was taken. The second report was from a male who said the suspect was in the apartment around the same time frame (3:30 a.m.) and the suspect left when challenged. FIRST NOTICE: The Eugene Police Department has released information about an incident reported earlier this morning (October 31, 2014) at a residence in the Duck’s Village area of Kinsrow Avenue. The resident, a UO student, reported that just before 6:00 a.m., she woke to find an unknown man in her room, and that he tried to get in bed with her and touched her. She said she screamed and the man fled. She told police that the man took some cash. She described him as black, age 20-25, about 6-feet tall with a medium build, and wearing a black sweatshirt. No further suspect information was provided. Eugene Police searched the area but didn’t locate the suspect. The news release from Eugene Police is available online: http://www.eugene-or.gov/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1637 This incident is unresolved and investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call Eugene Police at 541-682-5111 and reference Case No. 14-18881. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–11–09 A University of Oregon student has reported that he was robbed and assaulted on Agate Street just south of 15th Avenue in the early morning Saturday, November 8. The student said he was walking north on Agate Street with a group of five male friends just after midnight, when the group was approached by two unknown males. One demanded money and then punched two different students in the head; victims said he carried a folding knife in one hand. One victim gave him a wallet and the suspects left the area. Victims described the primary suspect as a white male, about six feet tall, slim build, wearing jeans and a light colored shirt or jacket. Victims said he displayed tattoos on the stomach and chest area. They said he had large ear piercings, and his hair was cut close on the sides and longer on the top. No further suspect description was available. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call UOPD at 541-346-2919. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police .uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2014–11–14 A University of Oregon student has reported that she was grabbed by an unknown man while riding her bike at Hilyard Street and 12th Avenue at about 10:45 p.m. on Thursday, November 13. The student reported she was riding on Hilyard, turning west onto 12th, when a large man in a dark jacket suddenly approached and grabbed her under the arm. As she pedaled away, he pulled at her backpack but let go, and she rode away. No further suspect description was available. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call UOPD at 541-346-2919. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police .uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2015–01–21 Please note this message may contain information that some may find upsetting. The University of Oregon Police Department has received information that a woman not affiliated with the UO may have been drugged and later sexually assaulted late Saturday, January 17, while at a private social gathering in Watson Hall, a UO residence hall located inside Hamilton Hall on the UO campus. Attempting to cause another person to ingest something without knowledge or consent is aggravated assault, a felony crime. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call UOPD Detective Sergeant Kathy Flynn at 541- 346-9694. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2015–02–03 A University of Oregon student has reported a strong arm robbery in the parking lot of Spencer View near E 22nd Avenue. The female student was walking in the complex between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Feb. 2, when a white male suspect approached her from behind and grabbed the bags she had been carrying. The suspect is described as approximately six feet tall, with long blond hair and a beard. At the time of the incident he was seen wearing a leather jacket. After he gained possession of the bags he was last seen leaving t! he area in an older red four door vehicle driven by an unidentified black male. After struggling with the suspect over the property the student reports she sprayed the male with personal protection pepper spray as he was fleeing. The incident remains under investigation by the University of Oregon Police Department and anyone with information about the incident is asked to call UOPD at 541.346.2919. Updates regarding this incident when and if available will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2015–04–26 Please note this message may contain information that some may find upsetting. A woman not affiliated with the University of Oregon reported to police that she was sexually assaulted in a restroom during a concert at Matthew Knight Arena on the UO campus on Saturday, April 25, at about 9:00 p.m. The woman reported that the incident happened in a women’s restroom near the east doors of the arena, on the main concourse level. She described her assailant as a white male, tall, with brown hair and blue eyes wearing a red flannel shirt. Further information was not available. The incident remains under investigation by the University of Oregon Police Department and anyone with information about the incident is asked to call UOPD at 541.346.2919. Updates regarding this incident when and if available will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2015–07–17 Please note this message may contain information that some may find upsetting. A female University of Oregon student reported to the SAFE hotline and UO police that she was attacked by a man who tried to steal her backpack, about 12:45 a.m. on July 17 to the east of Beall Concert Hall on the UO campus. The woman reported that she was walking south on the road between Beall Hall and the Pioneer Cemetery, when an unknown man approached her from behind, grabbed her hair and pushed her to the ground, and tried to remove her backpack. The woman peppersprayed the man, who stopped and fled, and the woman escaped. She described the man as white, late 20s to late 30s, about 6-feet-1, short hair, clean-shaven, with close-set eyes, wearing jeans and a dark-colored hooded sweatshirt with the hood up, and a strong smell of body odor. The incident remains under investigation by the University of Oregon Police Department and anyone with information about the incident is asked to call UOPD at 541.346.2919. Updates regarding this incident when and if available will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2015–12–01 Please note this message may contain information that some may find upsetting. A female University of Oregon student reported to UO police that she was attacked by a man near Hamilton Hall at 13th Avenue and Columbia Street on the UO campus, at about 10:30 p.m. on Monday, November 30, 2015. The woman reported that she was walking west on the south sidewalk of 13th Avenue, just west of Columbia Street, when an unknown man grabbed her from behind, placed a sharp object to her neck, and began attempting to drag her backward. The woman pepper-sprayed the man from a keychain dispenser in her hand, broke free, and fled. She looked back at the man as she fled, and described him as about 6-foot-4, with a slight build, uncertain skin tone, with no facial hair, wearing a dark zip-up sweatshirt, a black beanie hat, and dark sweatpants. After police received the report, UOPD and Eugene Police thoroughly searched the area with K-9 officers, but didn’t find the suspect. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call UOPD at 541-346-2919. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police.uoregon.edu.

Campus Crime Alert 2015–12–05 Two armed robberies with very similar suspect descriptions were reported to police near the University of Oregon campus on Saturday morning, December 5, 2015. In the first incident, a man reported to Eugene Police around 4:45 a.m. that he was robbed at gunpoint near 20th Avenue and Patterson Street. The suspect was described as a black male wearing all black clothing, about 5-foot- 10, and was reported to have pointed a gun and demanded valuables including a cell phone. In the second incident, a female UO student reported to UO Police via campus emergency phone, that at about 5:05 a.m. she was robbed at gunpoint near the Delta Delta Delta sorority, 851 E. 15th Ave. She described the suspect as a black male in his early 20s, clean-shaven, wearing a black hooded sweatshirt, dark puffy jacket, and dark jeans. The suspect reportedly pointed at the woman and demanded valuables including a cell phone. The suspect then fled west. After police received the report, UOPD and Eugene Police thoroughly searched the area by vehicle and foot and a K-9 unit, but did not locate the suspect. This incident is unresolved and an investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information about this or similar incidents should call UOPD at 541-346-2919 or EPD at 541-682-5111. Updates regarding this incident, when and if available, will be posted on the UOPD website at police .uoregon.edu.
