Posted November 18, 2014
UCF Police alerts you to a string of car burglaries that have occurred recently at an off-campus community.
Students who live in the Pointe at Central have woken up in the mornings to find that their vehicles had been entered and that items were missing.
The vehicles were all unlocked, which made them easy targets for criminals.
We want to remind you to lock your vehicles. Never leave any valuables in plain sight in your car, and if you are traveling with an item susceptible to theft, be sure to store it in your trunk.
Before walking away from your car, make sure that all windows are up and that the trunk and doors are locked.
Also, be aware of people who look suspicious. Common behaviors of vehicle burglars include:
	•	Moving from vehicle to vehicle and checking door handles
	•	Standing out of sight and watching people enter or leave
	•	Looking in the windows of cars
Please be aware of activity that looks suspicious and report it to UCF Police by calling 407-823-5555. If you believe you are witnessing a crime in progress, dial 911 immediately.

Posted March 19, 2015
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is asking for the UCF community’s help to identify a man suspected of an attack near campus Wednesday.
A woman who walking near Alafaya Trail and University Boulevard around 1 a.m. was attacked in what detectives believe was an attempted sexual battery. The suspect fled the scene after the woman screamed for help.
The man is described as white, tall and thin with brown hair, a full beard and between 20 and 30 years old.
A composite sketch released by the sheriff’s office can be viewed here: http://bit.ly/1FF5rtA.
If you have any information about Wednesday morning’s incident, call CRIMELINE at 800-423-TIPS.
The UCF Police Department continues to work with neighboring law enforcement agencies to keep the area near campus safe and to ensure that you are informed about off-campus crime.
We ask that you help us by being mindful of your safety whether on campus or off.
Always be aware of your surroundings. Follow the buddy system—especially at night—and always look out for your friends.
Never be afraid to call for help if you fear for your safety or see a situation that’s out of control.
Remain vigilant about your safety, and dial 911 immediately if you see suspicious activity.

Posted April 6, 2015
In our hurry to notify you about a shooting off campus last week, we mistakenly identified the location of the crime as Sterling/The Marquee.
The incident did not take place there, but in the area behind the complex on Socrates Drive.
Around 8:30 p.m. Thursday, two men were shot in what was described as a drive-by-shooting. Neither man is a UCF student, and they both remain hospitalized. Neither has been cooperative with law enforcement.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office, which is in charge of the area where the shooting took place, continues to investigate the incident.
If you have any information about what took place, contact CRIMELINE at 800-423-TIPS.
There doesn’t appear to be a UCF connection to the shooting, but any crime in our area is a reminder to be aware of your surroundings.
Walk in groups when possible, especially at night. Walk with a purpose and without distractions. Keep your cell phone and car keys handy so you can reach them quickly.
If you see activity that looks suspicious, say something. Call 911 so that police can follow up.
Look out for one another, and be safe.

Posted April 14, 2015
UCF Police alerts you to a crime near campus and reminds you of a few simple ways to keep yourself safe.    Around 11 p.m. yesterday, a victim was riding her bike along the Little Econ Greenway trail near Blanchard Park. She was approached by three suspects, one of whom had a gun, and robbed of her bike and other belongings. She was physically unharmed.    The woman described the suspects as three men in their 20s. Two were black males between 5’9 and 5’11, both with short dark hair and dark jackets, and one was a white male between 5’5 and 5’7 with light hair and a dark hoodie. The two black males were on bikes, and the white male was riding an electric scooter.     The incident is being investigated by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, which asks that any information be reported to Central Florida CrimeLine by calling 1-800-423-TIPS (8477).    When possible, we encourage you to avoid walking at night by yourself. Walk in groups and without distractions. Keep your cell phone and car keys handy so you can reach them quickly.    Students, faculty and staff on campus who would like a campus escort during nighttime hours are encouraged to call the Safe Escort Patrol Service offered for free by UCF Police. Rides and walking buddies can be arranged between 7 p.m. and 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday by calling 407-823-2424. Those seeking a safe escort after 1 a.m. or on weekends should call 407-823-5555, and an officer will be dispatched if one is available.    Always be aware of activity that looks suspicious and report it to UCF Police by calling 407-823-5555.

Posted November 16, 2015
UCF Police alerts you to a sexual battery that took place overnight at Knights Circle off-campus student housing.
The victim is a minor with no UCF affiliation, and UCFPD is investigating the incident as statutory rape.
She described the suspect as a 20-25-year-old black male of medium build who is approximately 6 feet tall. He was wearing a gray or white sweatshirt, black sweatpants and a hat.
The victim and a female friend met the suspect around 11 p.m. near Alafaya Trail and McCulloch Road and voluntarily followed him to another location before hopping a wall to enter Knights Circle.
The alleged crime took place in a parking lot early this morning.
UCFPD is enhancing its patrol, and investigators are following up on the crime.
We ask you to remain vigilant and to alert us to activity that seems sketchy.
If you have any information, please call UCFPD at 407-823-5555.

