Crime Alert - DuBois Library Larceny
Date Occurred: 
4/30/14
Occurred 4/30/14 from the Dubois Library.  Two related thefts of victims unattended property. Suspect is described as a white male, approx. 6’3”, college aged, black hair with a buzz cut, dark clothing, sweat pants, and with a black backpack. Students are urged to use caution and secure all valuables and not leave them unattended.
Crime Alert Update - Indecent Exposure - Lewd Act - Suspect Arrested
Date Occurred: 
Wednesday August 20, 2014
Crime Alert Number: 
CA 04-14-22876
Indecent Exposure/Lewd Act
On Wednesday August 27, 2014 at 2:40pm the UMass Amherst Police Department obtained an arrest warrant and was assisted by the Greenfield Police Department with placing Christopher M. Williams of 17 Avenue C, Apt. #2 Montague, Mass. under arrest for two counts of Open and Gross Lewdness. Mr. Williams was arrested without incident. On Wednesday August 20, 2014 on two separate occasions Mr. Williams is alleged to have driven his gold-colored, older model Honda Civic into UMass Amherst parking lots and exposed himself while masturbating in the presence of two female UMass students. An intensive, weeklong investigation by the officers led to suspect Williams, who was arraigned in Greenfield District Court on Thursday August 28, 2014. Chief Horvath praised the work of the investigators, “Officers had very limited information at the outset of this investigation and only after their exhaustive work were they able to zero in and identify this person. It was critical that we moved swiftly and remained diligent in this case to prevent a continuation of the activity or an escalation of his behavior.” Any questions related to this case can be directed to the UMass Amherst Police Department, Chief's Office at 413-545-2125.
Crime Alert - Breaking and Entering - Suspect in Custody
Date Occurred: 
8/27/14 and 8/28/14
Crime Alert Number: 
CA 06-14-23496
Suspect in custody for Lincoln Ave. Breaking & Entering.Incident at Lincoln Apts remains under investigation. See email for further update. Continue to use caution, lock doors and windows. Contact UMPD with any information related to the Lincoln Apts. investigation. Inquiries related to the breaking and entering on Lincoln Ave. should be referred to Amherst Police.
Crime Alert Update - Annoying Harassing Behavior - Person Identified
Date Occurred: 
9/4/14
Crime Alert Number: 
CA-07-24407
Updated Crime Alert:
On Sept. 6, 2014 the University Police Department issued a Crime Alert seeking information on a person of interest who was allegedly engaged in harassing behavior toward women on a PVTA bus.  This person has been positively identified and the investigation is continuing.  Thank you for your assistance in this investigation.
Original Crime Alert:
The University of Massachusetts Police Department is seeking to identify an individual who allegedly engaged in harassing behavior towards women on a PVTA bus on Thursday night (9/4/2014). Anyone with information that could be helpful is encouraged to contact UMPD at (413) 577-8477, or use our online Anonymous Witness Form.
Crime Alert - Assault and Battery
Date Occurred: 
09/21/2014
Crime Alert Number: 
CA 08-14-26430
On Monday September 22, 2014 the following incident was reported to UMPD: During the early morning hours of Sunday, 09-21-2014, a college aged male approached a group of students by the Fine Arts Center and threatened to assault several members of the group. It was reported that this male then bit a member of the group on the neck.
This male is described as having a light brown complexion, approximately 5'10" with dark hair and a chin strap style beard. He was wearing a flat brimmed green Celtics hat, blue flannel button up shirt, white undershirt, and blue jeans.
Anyone with information that could be helpful is encouraged to contact UMPD at (413)-577-8477, or use our onlineAnonymous Witness Form.
Crime Alert - Stolen Motor Vehicle
Date Occurred: 
10/17/14
Crime Alert Number: 
CA 09-14-28865
On 10/17/14 the University of Massachusetts Police Department received a report of a stolen motor vehicle that had been parked in Lot 22 in the Southwest area of campus.  The vehicle's owner stated that the vehicle had been locked and no keys had been left inside. The investigation is ongoing. There are no suspects at this time.
UMPD encourages all of our community members to take the following precautions to keep their vehicles and belongings safe:
Lock your doors and close your windows when you leave your vehicle. This simple precaution is often the most overlooked.
Do not leave "spare" car keys in or around your vehicle. As convenient as it may be to have a "spare key" kept with your vehicle in the event that you lose your main key, this is also convenient to those who are looking to steal your car.
Do not leave valuables in your vehicle. Even if you are only leaving your vehicle parked for a "little while", valuable items such as laptops, wallets, purses and cell phones serve to make your vehicle a more desirable target for thieves.
Anyone with information related to this motor vehicle theft is encouraged to contact the UMPD at 413-545-2121 or anonymously at 413-577-TIPS.
Crime Alert - Suspicious Activity
Date Occurred: 
November 11, 2014
The UMPD has received four reports from residents of the John Adams residence hall regarding a male who has been looking at female residents while they have been showering. The first incident occurred in September and was treated as an isolated incident. More recent reports have been filed and the UMPD is notifying the campus community to ensure your safety. Reports allege a white male has been seen looking, or attempting to look under the shower partitions on the third and sixth floor facilities. One incident describes the male as a college aged white male, dark hair, baseball cap on backwards, gray t-shirt, teal shorts and teal Sperry canvas boat shoes.  Another incident describes the male as a white male with a blue checkered shirt and blue jeans lying on the ground. Two women report seeing a black iPhone under the partition which is believed by them to have taken pictures or video.  The UMPD is actively investigating these incidents and is encouraging any resident to immediately report suspicious behavior to the police. Female residents are advised to remain aware of their surroundings and to contact the UMPD if they observe or are aware of similar situations. UMPD may be contacted at 545-2121 or online at  http://www.umass.edu/umpd/anonymous-witness-form
Advisory - Work-From-Home Scam Targeting University Students
Date Occurred: 
01/13/2015
Crime Alert Number: 
01132015a-PSA
FBI Warning
College students across the United States have been targeted to participate in work-from-home scams. Students have been receiving e-mails to their school accounts recruiting them for payroll and/or human resource positions with fictitious companies. The "position" simply requires the student to provide his/her bank account number to receive a deposit and then transfer a portion of the funds to another bank account. Unbeknownst to the student, the other account is involved in the scam that the student has now helped perpetrate. The funds the student receives and is directed elsewhere have been stolen by cyber criminals. Participating in the scam is a crime and could lead to the student’s bank account being closed due to fraudulent activity or federal charges. Here’s how the scam works:
	•	 The student is asked to provide his/her bank account credentials under the guise of setting up direct deposit for his/her pay.
	•	 The scammers will add the student’s bank account to a victim employee’s direct deposit information to redirect the victim’s payroll deposit to the student’s account.
	•	 The student will receive the payroll deposit from the victim’s employer in the victim’s name.
	•	 The student will be directed to withdraw funds from the account and send a portion of the deposit, via wire transfer, to other individuals involved in the scam. Consequences of Participating in the Scam:
	•	The student’s bank account will be identified by law enforcement as being involved in the fraud. 
	•	The victim employee has his/her pay stolen by the scammers utilizing the student’s bank account. 
	•	Without the student’s participation, the scam could not be perpetrated, so he/she facilitated the theft of the paycheck.
	•	The student could be arrested and prosecuted in federal court. A criminal record will stay with the student for the rest of his/her life and will have to be divulged on future job applications, which could prevent the student from beomg hired.
	•	The student’s bank account may be closed due to fraudulent activity and a report could be filed by the bank. This could adversely affect the student’s credit record.                  
Advisory - Cyber-Related Scams Targeting Universities, Employees, And Students
Date Occurred: 
05/01/2014
The Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) is aware of multiple scams targeting universities, university employees, and students across the nation. The scams range from Internet fraud to intrusions. The following are common scenarios:
	•	Spear phishing e-mails are being sent to university employees that appear to be from their employer. The e-mail contains a link and claims some type of issue has risen requiring them to enter their log-in credentials. Once employees provide their user name and password, the perpetrator accesses the university’s computer system to redirect the employees’ payroll allocation to another bank account. The university employees’ payroll allocations are being deposited into students’ accounts. These students were hired through online advertisements for work-at-home jobs, and provided their bank account information to the perpetrators to receive payment for the work they performed.
	•	Scammers are posting online advertisements soliciting college students for administrative positions in which they would receive checks via the mail or e-mail. Students are directed to deposit the checks into their accounts, and then print checks and/or wire money to an individual. Students are never asked to provide their bank account information to the perpetrators.
	•	Perpetrators are compromising students’ credential resulting in the rerouting of their reimbursement money to other bank accounts. The reimbursement money is from student loans and used to pay tuition, books, and living expenses.
	•	Perpetrators are obtaining professors’ Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and using it to file fraudulent income tax returns.
	•	Some universities have been victims of intrusions, resulting in the perpetrators being able to access university databases containing information on their employees and students.
If you have been a victim of one of these scams or any other Internet related scam, we encourage you to file a complaint with the IC3 athttp://www.ic3.gov and notify your university police.
Crime Alert - Burglary from Kennedy Residence Hall
Date Occurred: 
01/30/15
Crime Alert Number: 
CA 15-01-2814
The University of Massachusetts Police Department has received a report from a resident student that a laptop computer was stolen from her residence in Kennedy Hall on Friday, January 30.  The resident stated that she had left her room to visit friends between approximately 9:00pm and 10:00pm, and had left her room door open while she was gone.  The stolen laptop is described as a silver MacBook Air.  The investigation is continuing.
Anyone with information about this crime is encouraged to contact UMPD at (413) 545-2121; anonymous information can be left at (413) 577-TIPS.
Advisory - UMPD supports UMassIT efforts in protecting your information
Date Occurred: 
March 18, 2015
UMPD supports UMassIT efforts in protecting your information. In a March 7th message to the campus UMassIT encouraged account holders to change their NetID password. If you have not done so since receiving that message, please change your password now. Thank you in advance.
For questions, contact the IT Help Center (it@umass.edu) or the IT professional in your department, as applicable.
CHANGE YOUR NETID PASSWORD
	•	(Optional) If you are using Microsoft Exchange and have your email set up on your tablet or mobile devices, power off your devices.  
	•	On the UMass Amherst homepage (top right corner), click SPIRE.  
	•	Log in to SPIRE with your NetID and password.  
	•	 In SPIRE, click Main Menu > IT Accounts > My IT Accounts.  
	•	On the Account List page, click the name of an IT Account (e.g., chelaru).  
	•	On the Account Detail page, in the lower right corner, click Change Password.  
	•	Follow the instructions to change your password. Be sure to click Change IT Password at the bottom of the page. This will change your password for UMail, Apps at UMass Amherst, Library, Human Resources, and other campus services.  To connect to the eduroam wireless network, you may have to run the XpressConnect setup wizard again.  Note: If your Exchange email and workstation login password has been reset, you will see a message that your AD/Exchange account password has also been changed.  
	•	(Exchange Users) Confirm that you can log in to Exchange with the new password at exchange.umass.edu. Next, turn your mobile devices on one by one and change the password for the email account as prompted.
Crime Alert - Washington Hall Burglary
Date Occurred: 
05/01/2015
Crime Alert Number: 
CA 02-15-11429
The University of Massachusetts Police Department is investigating a burglary that occurred in Washington Hall in the early morning hours on 5/1/2015. The victim stated that his room was entered by an unknown subject and his wallet was stolen from within.Both the victim and his roommate were in the room, sleeping, at the time of the theft. The victim woke up to find the subject in his room but believed that it might be a friend coming by to retrieve something; he later discovered that his wallet had been stolen. The door to the room was unlocked at the time the crime occurred. The only description of the suspect, as provided by the victim, is: white male, approximately 5'10" - 6'tall, with brown hair. Anyone with information related to this crime is encouraged to contact Officer Fisher at (413) 545-2121;anonymous information can be left at (413) 577-TIPS(8477). UMPD encourages our community to take the following precautions to prevent similar crimes: •LOCK YOUR DOORS. Do not leave your dorm room door open or unlocked while you are away, even if only for a few minutes, and especially while you are asleep. •Do not leave valuables unattended where they are easily seen and quickly taken. This applies not only to dorm rooms but also to classrooms, the library, your car, etc. •Register the valuables that you bring on-campus with UMPD’s Project Protect. For more information please see http://www.umass.edu/umpd/project-protect
Crime Alert - Theft from a Person
Date Occurred: 
September 12, 2015
Crime Alert Number: 
3-15-21169
UMass Amherst Crime Alert: Theft from a Person
 
    On Saturday, September 12, 2015 at approximately 7:50pm a female student reported to the University Police that she was in the area of Washington Hall when she was approached by three males, one asking if they could use her cell phone. After providing her phone, one male ran from the area with the phone still in his possession. The other two other males then also left the area, all three running up Fearing Street toward Sunset Avenue. An immediate area check by UMPD resulted in no further identification of the males.
    The victim provided the police with the following description of the suspect who had stolen the phone: a light-skinned black male, not yet college age, 5'5" tall with an average body type, dark hair of average length and cut, clean shaven, wearing grayish Nike sneakers with an orange swoosh. A second female on Fearing Street observed the males and described them as approximately 16 years of age.
Crime Alert - Off-Campus Alleged Armed Robbery
Date Occurred: 
11/6/2015
Crime Alert Number: 
4-15
The Amherst Police Department is investigating an alleged off-campus armed robbery in the area of Brandywine Apartments, located off of Meadow Street, north of UMass-Amherst.  It is alleged that a gun was shown during the commission of the crime; that information is unconfirmed as of this time.  The Massachusetts State Police and the UMass-Amherst Police Departments have offered support to this investigation.  At this time there is no reason to believe that an imminent risk exists for our community, and police are actively patrolling our area.  This information will be updated as the investigation continues. 
Crime Alert - Off-Campus (Puffton Village) Armed Robbery
Date Occurred: 
11/18/2015
Crime Alert Number: 
5-15
The University of Massachusetts Police Department has been informed that the Amherst Police Department is investigating an alleged armed robbery that took place earlier this evening.
 
The alleged incident took place at Puffton Village Apartments which are located north of the UMass-Amherst campus, adjacent to North Village Apartments.  It is reported that the victim exited a bus and was approached by two male individuals, dressed all in black.  These individuals displayed a gun and demanded money.  At this time there is no reason to believe that an imminent risk exists for the UMass community; police are patrolling the area and the Amherst Police Detective Bureau is continuing the investigation.
Crime Alert - Sexual Assault
Date Occurred: 
12/11/2015
Crime Alert Number: 
6-15-28828
Crime Alert – Sexual Assault
Date Occurred: 12/11/2015
Crime Alert Number: 6-15-28828
The University of Massachusetts Police Department has received a report of a sexual assault that is reported to have taken place at approximately 1am in the area of the Studio Arts Building on North Pleasant Street.
The victim stated that she was walking in the area of the north side of the Studio Arts Building, by the construction site, when she was joined by an unidentified male.  This male individual walked with her briefly, then pushed her to the ground and sexually assaulted her.
The suspect is described as college-aged, wearing casual clothing.  There is no further identifying information available at this time.  Anyone with information related to this crime is encouraged to contact UMPD at (413) 545-2121; anonymous information can be left at (413) 577-TIPS or online at: http://www.umass.edu/umpd/anonymous-witness-form.
