University at Buffalo 
	•	Amherst Police investigate off-campus shooting
Published February 9, 2014 at 11:55 AM
Amherst Police are investigating a shooting incident, which occurred in the area of McDonald’s restaurant, 3500 Main Street in Amherst, at approximately 11:18 p.m. on Saturday, February 8.
Amherst Police report that they responded to a male shot in the leg.  Initial reports indicate the shooting followed a dispute between a group of young men. The suspect was described as a black male approximately 16 to 17 years old, wearing a brown hooded sweatshirt or black jacket. He may have been with three other young men who fled down Springville Avenue.  
Anyone who may have witnessed this crime should contact the Amherst Police at 716-689-1311. 
Members of the campus community are urged to be vigilant at all times. Report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons and activities to the University Police, 716-645-2222, as soon as possible. For tips on how to stay safe, go towww.upolice.buffalo.edu.

2.UB Police investigating sexual assault on South Campus
Published February 16, 2014 at 4:57 PM
University at Buffalo Police are investigating a sexual assault that occurred early this morning at a South Campus residence hall.  The suspect is known to the victim and the University Police investigation is continuing.  It is not believedthere is a current threat to others at this time.
Members of the university community are reminded to stay alert to their surroundings and always travel with other people they trust.  Use the SBI Safety Services walk stations, Safety Shuttle or other UB transportation services.  Call 716-829-2584 for information from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday or go to their website at healtheducation.buffalo.edu.
For tips on how to stay safe, go to www.upolice.buffalo.edu orhttp://www.student-affairs.buffalo.edu/public-safety/whattodo.php
Members of the community are urged to be vigilant at all times, and to report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons and activities to the University Police as soon as possible.  Always call the University Police if you are ever in a situation where you do not feel safe at 716-646-2222 or use any blue light phone. Tips on any campus crime can be reported at 716-645-2227 or anonymously atwww.upolice.buffalo.edu.

3.Several bad drug reactions reported to UB Police over the weekend
Published February 16, 2014 at 7:12 PM
University at Buffalo Police have responded to several instances of students having medical emergencies after smoking suspected marijuana.  It is possible that illegal drugs being sold are mixed with other substances such as synthetic marijuana, which has been known to have serious side-effects such as agitation, increased sweating, inability to speak and hallucinations.  In the calls to University Police this weekend, victims experienced trouble breathing, dizziness, nausea and general disorientation.  The eight students involved all were transported to the hospital this weekend with similar symptoms.
Members of the community are urged to be vigilant at all times, and to report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons and activities to the University Police as soon as possible.  Always call the University Police if you are ever in a situation where you do not feel safe at 716-646-2222 or use any blue light phone. Tips on any campus crime can be reported at 716-645-2227 or anonymously atwww.upolice.buffalo.edu.

4.UB Police warn of residence hall larcenies
Published March 3, 2014 at 6:01 PM
University Police are investigating a series of larcenies from unlocked residence hall rooms in Red Jacket Quad on the North Campus. The suspects are believed to be a black male and female working together as a team.
The black male is described as 30 years old, stocky (wide) build, blue hoodie, dark hat or ball cap, bald, with light facial hair. The black female is described as 20 to 30 years old, tall, thin and wearing a red bandana and jeans.
The suspects are entering residence hall rooms uninvited and, when challenged by the occupant(s), they claim to have accidentally entered the wrong room while looking for a resident.
UB Police stress that this is a totally preventable crime; residents are enouraged to lock their residence hall rooms. 
Members of the UB community are reminded to be vigilant at all times. Report any unusual circumstances, suspicious persons or activities to the University Police as soon as possible.
For emergencies dial 645-2222 or use any blue light phone. Tips on any campus crime can be reported at 645-2227 or anonymously at http://upolice.buffalo.edu.

5.UB Police warn of email scam
Published June 19, 2014 at 5:31 PM
Please be aware that threatening emails are circulating on- and off-campus in an attempt to extort money.  While there are many variations of this scam, if you feel threatened please contact your local police.  On campus, please call UB Police at 716-645-2222.
Some of these emails were generated from hacked UB email accounts.  One of the hacked accounts belonged to a UB user who responded to an email she incorrectly believed originated from UB’s information technology office.  After clicking on a link within the email, she provided her user name and password. 
You should never email your password or any other private information, and UB will never ask you to do so. Don't be tricked - never reveal your password(s) to anyone.
This is a very common variation of a scam that “phishes” for account and identity information. As hacked accounts are identified, UB’s Information Security Office is disabling the accounts to prevent them from being used again to carry out this scam.
If you have already responded to an email with money or information, please contact police as soon as possible.
Here are some common signs of an email scam:
	•	The mail comes from one address but when you reply the address is different.
	•	The message threatens to kill with no specific information about you.
	•	The message warns you not to contact anyone, including the police.

If you receive an email that you suspect may be a scam, please forward it to abuse@buffalo.edu.  For more information about these scams as well as other security information, go to http://www.buffalo.edu/ubit/news/alerts/ubit-security.html

6.UB Police investigating reports of male entering women’s rest rooms on South Campus
Published June 25, 2014 at 4:45 PM
The University Police are investigating an incident that occurred in Kapoor Hall on June 10 and a second incident that occurred in Diefendorf Hall on June 24. In both incidents, witnesses reported observing an Asian male entering women’s restrooms. Witnesses report that the subject may have been attempting to photograph women in the first incident. Video images were captured of a possible suspect from the Kapoor Hall incident. These images are posted on the University Police website at http://www.student-affairs.buffalo.edu/public-safety/know.php. The University Police are actively working on determining the subject’s identity.
In what appears to be an unrelated matter, an individual similar in description was arrested on June 24 in Diefendorf Hall for harassment of a female employee.
While the investigation into these incidents continues, members of the university community are urged to be vigilant at all times. University Police have increased patrols in the area.
Members of the university community are encouraged to report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons/activities to the University Police as soon as possible. In an emergency, dial 645-2222 or use any blue light phone. Tips on campus crime can be reported at 645-2227 or anonymously atwww.upolice.buffalo.edu.

7.Update on investigation of male entering women’s rest rooms on South Campus
Published June 26, 2014 at 4:49 PM
University at Buffalo Police investigators have determined that the individual arrested on June 24 is the same individual shown in the photo on the University Police website entering a women’s bathroom in Kapoor Hall on June 10.
University Police have charged UB student Yuxi Zhang, 19, of Merrimac Street, with harassment, a class “B” misdemeanor. This concludes the investigation at Kapoor Hall. Zhang will be referred to Judicial Affairs for his actions.  While the university cannot discuss student disciplinary matters, students in similar cases have been suspended from the University

8.UB police investigating assault
Published October 18, 2014 at 9:41 AM
University Police are investigating an assault that occurred at the Ellicott Complex bus stop on the North Campus at approximately 3:18 a.m. today.  An individual approached the victim, a student, and punched him in the face causing injuries.
The suspect was described as a dark-skinned black male, approximately 6'8" tall, with a beard, and was wearing a black shirt with gold lettering on the front, Timberland boots, blue jeans, and a dark sweatshirt.
Any witnesses to the incident are urged to call the University Police at 716-645-2227.
Members of the university community are urged to remember to stay alert to their surroundings, to always travel with other people and to report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons and activities to the University Police as soon as possible.
Tips on any campus crime can be reported at 716-645-2227 or anonymously atwww.upolice.buffalo.edu.

9.UB Police searching for suspect
Published September 18, 2014 at 3:06 PM
On Wednesday, September 17, a female UB student was assaulted by an unknown college-aged black male near Capen Hall, North Campus, at approx. 2:15 p.m.
The victim reports this is an ongoing situation that has escalated since the start of the school year. She does not know the suspect, however he has personal information about her such as her name and where she lives. The suspect has stated that he is a UB graduate student and claims he played on the UB football team as an undergraduate.
The suspect is described as follows:
	•	Appears to be college aged
	•	6 feet tall
	•	Skinny
	•	Black male
	•	Long dread locks
	•	Light facial hair “like a 5 o’clock shadow”
	•	Black or blue hoodie
	•	Duquesne University drawstring backpack
University Police are working on identifying the suspect as soon as possible and ask for the public’s help.
If you were in the area and witnessed this incident, or if you know who this suspect is, please contact the University Police at 716-645-2222.
10.Police identify suspect in assault
Published October 18, 2014 at 1:47 PM
University Police have identified a suspect, a UB student, in the alleged assault that occurred early this morning at an Ellicott Complex bus stop on UB’s North Campus.
The matter has been referred to University Judicial Affairs and the criminal investigation into the incident is continuing. 
Because of federal privacy laws, the university cannot provide information on specific disciplinary actions pertaining to an individual student.  Generally speaking, in cases involving alleged assaults, students are immediately suspended from the university and all university activities. They are also barred from the campus pending the outcome of the university’s judicial process. 
11.UB police investigating sexual assault
Published November 9, 2014 at 11:40 AM
University Police are investigating a sexual assault that occurred early this morning in a North Campus apartment.  The suspect became acquainted with the victim at an off-campus location.  University Police investigation into the incident is continuing.
The female victim described the suspect as a tall male, 6’2,” with medium to dark complexion, an average build, a long, narrow face, black spiky style hair and possibly light goatee facial hair on his chin.
Police do not believe there is a current threat to others at this time.  Anyone with information about this incident should contact University Police at 716-645-2222.
Members of the campus community are reminded to stay alert to their surroundings and always travel with people you trust.  Use the SBI Safety Services walk stations, Safety Shuttle or other UB transportation services whenever needed.  For more information about UB’s Safety Shuttle, call 716-829-2584 or go to http://sbihealtheducation.org.
For tips on how to stay safe, go to www.upolice.buffalo.edu or www.student-affairs.buffalo.edu/public-safety/whattodo.php.

12.UB Police investigating strong-arm robbery on South Campus
Published January 11, 2015 at 8:20 PM
University Police are investigating a strong-arm robbery that occurred at approximately 7:20 p.m. today in the Main and Bailey parking lot on UB’s South Campus.  According to police, two men threated the victim and took his cell phone and some cash. 
The suspects were described as short, black males wearing all dark clothing. They fled off campus toward Main Street and Kenmore Avenue. 
Anyone with information about this incident should contact the University Police at 716-645-2222. 
University Police have increased patrols in the area where the crime occurred. They remind members of the campus community that it is best to travel with others and to always be cognizant of your surroundings.

13.Sexual assault reported
Published April 6, 2015 at 9:45 PM
University Police received a report today that a student was sexually assaulted in an on-campus apartment on Sunday, April 5, by a person with whom she was acquainted. 
This UB Alert message is being issued to promote awareness about how to report and prevent sexual violence at the university and to urge caution.  More information about preventing and responding to sexual violence on campus can be found at: http://www.student-affairs.buffalo.edu/public-safety/vpt.php
Anyone with information about this, or any other incident of sexual assault on campus, is urged to call University Police at (716) 645-2222.
April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month, an effort that aims to educate the UB community and Western New York on how to prevent sexual violence and provide support to those who have experienced it. To learn more, go tohttp://www.buffalo.edu/news/releases/2015/04/005.html.

14.University Police investigating burglary at Flickinger Court apartments
Published April 22, 2015 at 3:37 PM
A resident of Flickinger Court on the UB North Campus reported that his wallet was stolen from his apartment on the evening of April 20.  It appears that an unknown person opened an unlocked window after cutting and removing the screen, and was able to reach in and take the wallet, which was left on a table near the window.
University Police remind residents to keep their windows and doors locked, and to immediately report any suspicious activity by calling (716) 645-2222. 
The University Police Department is continuing its investigation and has increased patrols in the area. If you have any information regarding this incident, please call (716) 645-2222.   
15.UB Police investigating assault on South Campus
Published September 20, 2015 at 8:30 PM
University Police are investigating a report of an assault that occurred today at 5:03 p.m. and which was reported to police later this evening. 
A UB student reported to University Police that he was hit in the back of the head with a BB from what appeared to be an air pistol, causing a minor injury. 
The incident occurred while he was walking on the sidewalk near Hayes Annex B on the South Campus. 
Suspects are three male juveniles on bicycles who fled the area, leaving campus.  University Police are reviewing security camera video and will continue frequent patrols in the area.
Call University Police at 716-645-2227 if you have any information about this incident.
Members of the university community are urged to be vigilant at all times. Report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons/activities to the University Police as soon as possible.
16.Police are investigating an assault, reported today, that occurred October 8, 2015 at 1:35 am
Published October 8, 2015 at 11:36 AM
An incident has occurred on or near a University at Buffalo campus that may pose a continuing threat to the university community. This warning is provided so that you may take whatever action is deemed necessary for your safety.
Police are investigating an assault, reported today, that occurred October 8, 2015 at 1:35 am.
The victim and two friends were playing Frisbee in the Main-Bailey Parking lot on the South Campus, when the suspect approached and asked if he could join the game. After a few minutes the suspect punched the victim in the face and left. As he left the suspect picked up one of the students wallets off of the ground and looked through it. The suspect dropped the wallet and left the area. The victim’s glasses were damaged from the punch.
The suspect is described as a dark-skinned black male in his early 20's, thin build, dressed in black sweatpants and a black hooded sweatshirt with unknown writing on the front.
The investigation is ongoing and University Police are reviewing video recordings of the area.
To protect yourself, be alert to your surroundings and the people around you. When possible avoid walking alone.
Members of the community are urged to be vigilant at all times.  Report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons and activities to the University Police (645-2222) as soon as possible.
17.Buffalo Police Investigating 12/13 Off-Campus Robbery
Published December 14, 2015 at 9:49 AM
An incident has occurred on or near a University at Buffalo campus that may pose a continuing threat to the university community. This warning is provided so that you may take whatever action is deemed necessary for your safety.
The Buffalo Police are investigating an off-campus student robbery, reported December 13, 2015, that occurred on 12/13/15 at 10:35 p.m. on Winspear Avenue.
The victim and a friend were approached by two male teenagers wearing dark colored clothing. The suspects asked the victim to use his cell phone. The victim stated that one of the males then pulled on his shirt from his left and from his right the other suspect pointed a black handgun at him. The victim stated he was then struck in the head by the suspect on his left at which time he gave them his cell phone, and his wallet. The two suspects took those items and then ran west bound into the city. Neither victim was injured.  At approximately 3 a.m., the Buffalo Police apprehended both suspects when they attempted to sell the phone.
To protect yourself, remember to stay alert to your surroundings and always travel with other people. When possible, use the SBI Safety Services walk stations, Safety shuttle or other UB transportation services. 
Members of the community are urged to be vigilant at all times. Report any unusual circumstances or suspicious persons and activities to the University Police (645-2222) as soon as possible.
18.University Police investigating incident on North Campus
Published December 31, 2015 at 12:04 PM
University Police are investigating a report that a man exposed himself outside an apartment window at Creekside Village on the University at Buffalo’s North Campus around 7 p.m. on Dec. 30.
An occupant of the apartment described the suspect as a tall white man wearing a light grey, hooded sweatshirt. The suspect was last seen leaving the area on foot in the direction of the Ellicott Complex.
University Police have increased patrols in the area, and urge anyone with information about the incident to call 716-645-2222.
