** There may be more alerts online that are not labeled crime.  https://www.brown.edu/about/administration/public-safety/crime-alerts?page=1
Community Notification - Danger of Spiked Drinks - October 22, 2014
The Brown University Department of Public Safety would like to inform (or remind) the student community of the dangers of spiked drinks. There has been a local and national rise in drink spiking incidents on college campuses. If you are attending a function where alcohol is being served, we encourage you to exercise the following safety tips:
 STRATEGIES FOR SAFETY
There are several things you can do whenever you go to a party, club, bar, or on a date to reduce the risk that you will be a victim of having your drink spiked.  
 · Don’t accept a mixed drink or an opened container from anyone. If someone offers you a drink, watch it being made. If you are unsure about any of the ingredients, don't drink it.
 ·  Avoid sharing or trading drinks with anyone.
 · Don’t drink from a punch bowl or from a container being passed around.
 · Be in control of your drink. If there has been any opportunity for someone to spike your drink, dump it. Do not leave your drink sitting out for someone else to find.
 · Don’t drink anything that looks or tastes unusual or suspicious. Be on the alert for excess saltiness or bitterness, unexplained residue, or odd colors or textures.
 WHAT TO DO IF YOU HAVE BEEN DRUGGED
 · If you think your drink has been spiked (common symptoms include; dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, tiredness, blurred vision, paranoia) go to a safe place or tell somebody you trust that you need help. Contact Public Safety for assistance at401-863-4111.
 Other Common Symptoms:
 · You feel drunker than you should given the amount of alcohol you’ve consumed.
· You wake up feeling fuzzy and you can’t remember all or part of last night.
· You remember having a drink, but you can’t remember what happened after you finished it.
Alcohol is more commonly used by perpetrators to facilitate sexual assault than other drugs, making it the most common rape drug. Most "date rape drugs" leave the body within 24 to 72 hours, so it is important to get a drug test as soon as possible after the assault has occurred. If you are not able to get tested within this time frame, you may still file a sexual assault report with Brown Public Safety.  The decision to pursue criminal charges does not have to made at that time; it is an option. There may be other evidence that indicates you were sexually assaulted, regardless of whether you can prove you were drugged at the time.
Safety Information: Suspected Use of Date Rape Drugs - October 24, 2014
Dear Brown Students,
You received an email on Wednesday from the University’s Department of Public Safety including safety tips about “spiked” drinks. We are following up on that notice to alert you that the Office of Student Life and the Department of Public Safety have received reports from two students that on Friday, October 17, 2014 they suspect that they were given alcoholic punch containing a date rape drug at a party at a fraternity in Sears House.  One of the complainants also reported that she was sexually assaulted later that same night after having been given the date rape drug.
The two students who consumed the punch reported symptoms consistent with consumption of date rape drugs:  a rapid onset of intoxication out of proportion to what they may have had to drink, and reported memory loss for a significant period of time.  If you have any information about either the suspected use of a date rape drug or the sexual assault, please contact Sergeant John Carvalho at the Department of Public Safety, 401-863-3322 as the incidents are under active investigation.
Sexual assault and the use of date rape drugs are criminal and predatory behaviors that will be sanctioned under the University’s Code of Student Conduct and Rhode Island law.  Any student found responsible for sexual assault or for placing a date rape drug in a drink will be separated from the University.  These offenses also violate Rhode Island law and can result in criminal prosecution.    
 While our investigation is ongoing, we have taken some immediate steps to protect the community.  The organization that hosted the event last Friday night has been suspended.  As a result of our concern about these incidents, we are also reviewing our policies for alcohol service at campus events.  We will be in touch with organizations about any interim steps we might take and about any permanent changes in policy.  Any violation of alcohol service policy will result in immediate suspension of an organization.
Members of the Brown community should be alert to the possibility that date rape drugs are being placed in drinks at social gatherings and should take steps to protect themselves and other students.  Date rape drugs, commonly Rohypnol, GHB, and Ketamine, can be slipped into an unsuspecting person's drink. Rapid and severe intoxication follows, along with dramatically reduced inhibitions and memory loss. In this condition, anyone can be extremely vulnerable to sexual assault.  It should also be noted that alcohol is the most common date rape drug.  
We are committed to cultivating a community of mutual care and respect.  For information about prevention efforts including bystander intervention, please see the Department of Health Promotion website which also includes a full listing of support resources and links to our policies. 

Safety Information: Use of Date Rape Drugs Investigations Update - November 8, 2014
Dear Brown Students,

We are writing to follow up on the October 24, 2014 timely warning notification to the community. In that notice, we indicated that we had credible reports that two students might have been served a drink mixed with a date rape drug at a fraternity party held in Sears House on October 17.  

Since those reports were received, there has been an active and ongoing investigation into these allegations conducted jointly by the Department of Public Safety and the Office of Student Life.  These processes are being pursued in parallel to investigate criminal activity under Rhode Island state law as well as potential violations of Brown University's Code of Student Conduct.  

Our update today is to provide information that one of the two students tested positive for GHB (gamma hydroxybutyrate), a common date rape drug.  A test for the second student is pending.  GHB is a colorless, odorless drug that can be hard to detect in a drink but has a strong sedative effect that is incapacitating.  It is a dangerous drug used as a predatory tool by those seeking to commit sexual violence.  Under Rhode Island state law, it is illegal to possess, use, or distribute GHB.  For more information about date rape drugs and steps you can take to protect yourselves and members of the Brown community, please see the Health Promotion website. As always, keep in mind that alcohol is the most common date rape drug.

For students who would like to know more about Brown's support resources and policies regarding sexual misconduct, the Undergraduate Council of Students and the Coalition for Sexual Assault and Relationship Abuse (CASARA) sponsored a panel discussion on this topic earlier this week, and a video of the event is available to Brown community members online. The Health Promotion website has a full listing of all of Brown's resources and services for sexual assault.  

We expect to have more information to report to the community about these investigations soon.  One of the two students also reported being sexually assaulted on October 17, 2014, as a result of her incapacitation, and this matter is still under investigation.  We strongly encourage any individuals with relevant information to report what they know to Sergeant John Carvalho, Department of Public Safety, (401) 863-3322.
Division of Campus Life - January 19, 2015
Dear Member of the Brown Community,
 This year, in keeping with new federal guidelines for college campuses and in support of the aims of Brown’s Task Force on Sexual Assault, we have increased communication and transparency regarding incidents of sexual misconduct. When privacy and confidentiality guidelines permit, we are providing information about incidents and the University response. We are writing now with an update about two incidents from fall 2014 and about plans to review our policies pertaining to social events and alcohol service.   
 The two incidents described in this letter involve unregistered parties hosted by fraternities. In both cases, no individual member of either fraternity was charged with sexual misconduct. These student organizations were found responsible for creating an environment that facilitated sexual misconduct through improperly monitored spaces and inadequate safeguards surrounding the service of alcohol.   
 The measures we are taking this spring reflect our interest in preventing sexual assault by addressing the campus climate at Brown. All Brown community members need to be involved in preventing sexual violence, and all student organizations are expected to ensure that adequate security measures are in place to promote safe events and activities. We recognize that, in the instances discussed in this letter, not all students within the organizations were individually responsible for the events that occurred.  It is imperative, however, that all students take full responsibility for the behaviors of their organizations. The sanctions that have been imposed in these cases are emblematic of a growing recognition that the status quo of social events that place students at risk is simply not acceptable.
 Student Organization Incidents from Fall 2014
 On October 3, 2014, Sigma Chi, a fraternity in Olney House, hosted an unregistered party in the basement of their residence.  The Department of Public Safety responded and broke up the party.  One student reported an incident of non-consensual contact of a sexual nature that occurred as students were exiting the crowded basement. The complainant was not able to identify the specific individual who was responsible for touching her.
 The fraternity had a student organization hearing on October 31 related to charges of the unauthorized party, serving alcohol to minors, and creating an unsafe environment that resulted in an incident of non-consensual sexual contact.  As a result, the fraternity was sanctioned with probation and suspension of social and University privileges until fall 2016. During their sanction, Sigma Chi cannot sponsor any social events and has lost access to their chapter room, lounge, library, and basement. In addition, the fraternity is ineligible to conduct recruitment, rush, or initiation processes. Fraternity members are responsible for participating in educational programs on alcohol, sexual assault, and maintaining a safe environment. This decision was upheld following an appeal. The national chapter of this fraternity has been notified of the offenses.
 On October 17, 2014, Phi Kappa Psi, a fraternity in Sears House, held an unregistered party during which two students reported receiving an alcoholic drink that contained a date rape drug. The fraternity was charged with creating an environment that facilitated inappropriate, potentially dangerous, and possibly criminal behavior by hosting a party where guests were served a drink that contained a date rape drug. One student reported an incident of non-consensual sexual contact that did not happen within the fraternity’s facility nor did it involve a member of the fraternity, but its occurrence was a result of the student’s incapacitation.
 A student organization hearing for Phi Kappa Psi was held on December 5, 2014. The fraternity was found responsible for the following violations: actions that can result in harm; illegal possession or use of drugs; illegal provision, sale, or possession with intent to sell/provide drugs; and violation of operational rules. Since the organization was monitoring and controlling beverage service, it was found responsible for the provision of a drink that contained gamma hydroxybutyrate (GHB). The conduct board, consisting of a faculty member, student, and an administrator, sanctioned the organization with loss of University recognition for four years, including loss of housing. This decision was upheld following an appeal. After the appeal was concluded, some questions were raised regarding the validity of one laboratory test that was part of the evidence that indicated students had been given GHB.  It will be decided, after a thorough and final review of the physical evidence, whether the findings and sanctions against Phi Kappa Psi should be modified.
 Because the fraternity was found responsible for several serious violations, based on evidence that is not in dispute, and which by themselves warrant strong sanctions, and because of the fraternity’s history of disciplinary infractions involving unauthorized events and alcohol violations, the sanctions recommended by the Student Conduct Board will be put into effect immediately. The national chapter of this fraternity has been notified of the offenses.
 Plans for Review of Campus Policies
 In conjunction with our on-going and intensified efforts to prevent and address sexual assault at Brown, this spring the Division of Campus Life and Student Services will conduct a comprehensive review of alcohol policy and social event regulations to promote a safer environment on campus. Given Greek Council’s interest in preventing sexual assault, we look forward to partnering with them and with other students, faculty, and staff in reviewing our policies governing campus events.   
 While the review is underway this spring, no events with alcohol can be held in any Greek or program houses. Student organizations in good standing can host events in which alcohol is served to students aged 21 and over, in approved campus spaces. All such events must be registered with the Student Activities Office. We are prohibiting parties with alcohol service in residential areas. Approved events will have appropriate security and safety measures in place.          
 We are encouraged that as a result of increased attention, awareness, and resources, more students are reporting incidents of sexual misconduct when they occur. At the same time, we expect individuals and organizations to be vigilant in their efforts to prevent and to intervene in harmful situations. The University offers a range of programs, including bystander intervention workshops, which can be scheduled by contacting the Office of Health Promotion. Students who wish to report an incident or are seeking support and counseling should visit the Health Promotion web page for available resources.



Assault-February 19, 2015
The Brown University Department of Public Safety would like to notify the Community of an assault that occurred near the intersection of Waterman Street and Gano Street.
Incident
On 2/18/15, at approximately 9:30 P.M., the Providence Police Department reported to Brown University Police that a member of the Brown University Community, while walking on Waterman Street, was grabbed from behind, by an unknown male.  The victim was able to break free and the unidentified male fled the scene on foot, running east on Waterman Street, toward Wayland Avenue.  The victim described her assailant as wearing a tan jacket, approximately 5’7”, 40-45 years old. 
Assault - March 1, 2015
The Brown University Department of Public Safety would like to notify the Community of an assault involving a firearm, that occurred on Angell Street.
 Incident
On 3/1/2015, at approximately 9:40 P.M., a Brown University student was parked on Angell Street, between Thayer Street and Brown Street. When an unknown male, opened the drivers door and displayed a firearm. The victim immediately drove off unharmed.   The suspect was described as a white male, approximately 20-25 years old, wearing a black knit hat.
Assault/Robbery - October 25, 2015
 The Brown University Department of Public Safety is informing the campus community of an Assault and Robbery that took place near the intersection of Prospect and Meeting Street.
 
 Incident:
 On 10/25/15 at approximately 9:45 PM, the victim (Brown contractor) was in the area of Prospect Street and Meeting Street when he was approached by two unidentified males. The males demanded his cell phone. One of the males displayed a knife. The victim was assaulted and robbed. The suspects fled the area in a dark colored SUV with tinted windows.
 The suspects were described as two Latino males of medium complexion around 18 years of age. One of the males was wearing a black Halloween mask with a white skeleton face.
Robbery - November 3, 2015
The Brown University Department of Public Safety is informing the campus community of a robbery that occurred on Prospect Street between Bowen and Cushing Street.
Incident:
On 11/03/2015, at approximately 2:30 P.M., a Brown University student while walking on Prospect Street, between Bowen and Cushing Street, was approached by two unidentified males who demanded her cell phone. The student complied and was not injured. The suspects fled on foot, northbound on Prospect Street. The victim provided the following description:
Suspect 1:  male, approximately 14-16 years of age, approximately 5’4”
Suspect 2:  male, approximately 14-16 years of age, wearing a red and black hooded sweatshirt, with short curly hair.
Robbery - December 6, 2015
The Brown University Department of Public Safety is informing the campus community of a robbery that occurred near the intersection of Waterman and Hope Street.
Incident
On 12/06/15, at approximately 4:00 A.M., two RISD students were robbed of their personal belongings. The students were approached by an unidentified male on foot, brandishing a black firearm, he demanded cash and credit cards. They complied and were not  injured. The suspect fled in an unknown direction.
The suspect is described as a male, approximately 6'3" wearing a red hooded sweatshirt and a black ski mask. The incident is underinvestigation. Anyone with information about this crime is asked to contact Brown University PD at 401-863-3322 or the Providence PD at 401-272-3121.
