PUBLISHED FEBRUARY 7, 2014 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE
SUSPECT IN BATTERY ARRESTED IN CHARLESTON
Indiana man faces similar charges in Charleston
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
Michael J. Andrews
The suspect wanted on a charge of sexual battery of a female student on Duke's campus Thursday has been arrested in Charleston, S.C. for a similar incident and is currently in custody.
Michael J. Andrews, 31, of 4518 Mohr Estate South Drive in New Palestine, Ind. was arrested earlier today on one count of misdemeanor battery in the second degree by the Charleston Police Department.
Andrews was being sought on a warrant issued yesterday for one count of misdemeanor sexual battery following the report by a Duke student who said she had been inappropriately touched while walking on an outdoor stairway between Keohane and Few Quad.
"We appreciate the collaboration of the various law enforcement agencies involved in identifying and apprehending this suspect so quickly," said Kyle Cavanaugh, vice president for Administration. 
PUBLISHED MARCH 5, 2014 IN CAMPUS, ACADEMICS, WORKING@DUKE


POLICE INVESTIGATING OFF-CAMPUS ROBBERY
No one injured in incident at BP Family Fare at West Main and Ninth streets
SHARE THIS STORY
BY APRIL DUDASH
Police continue to search for a suspect involved in a robbery Wednesday of a BP Family Fare gas station at the corner of West Main and Ninth streets.
The robbery was reported at 1:42 a.m. after a man entered the business, pointed a gun at the clerk and took cash from the register before fleeing in a black SUV, according to Durham police spokeswoman Kammie Michael. No one was injured.
Duke University Chief of Police John Dailey said Duke and Durham police units began searching the area for the SUV, and Durham officers found the vehicle - abandoned and disabled - at Campus Drive and Anderson Street.
Police officers from Duke and Durham searched the area Wednesday morning, and a police dog tracked the suspect moving away from campus toward Duke University Road.
The suspect is described as a black male who is in his 40s. He has a beard and was wearing all black.
Due to the proximity to campus, Duke notified students and employees about the incident with a DukeALERT email and text.
While the crime is being investigated by the Durham Police Department, Duke police ask students and employees to report suspicious activity on campus by calling (919) 684-2444.
Anyone with information about the robbery is asked to call CrimeStoppers at (919) 683-1200. CrimeStoppers pays cash rewards for information leading to arrests in felony cases, and callers never have to identify themselves.
MAN CHARGED IN OFF-CAMPUS ARMED ROBBERY
Mebane man charged in connection with gas station robbery off West Main, Ninth streets
BY APRIL DUDASH
A Mebane man has been arrested and charged in connection with an off-campus armed robbery at a BP Family Fare gas station March 5.
Derrick Lamont Shuler, 35, was arrested last week and has since been charged with committing several robberies over two days, according to Durham Police. He is in Durham County Jail without bond.
Shuler allegedly entered the BP Family Fare at the corner of West Main and Ninth streets around 1:40 a.m., pointed a gun at the clerk, took cash from the register and fled. Duke officials sent a DukeALERT message March 5 after Durham police discovered the getaway vehicle disabled at Anderson Street and Campus Drive near campus.
In the March 5 BP incident, Shuler was charged with robbery with a dangerous weapon and assault by pointing a gun.
Shuler also was charged in connection with other robberies occurring in a parking lot on New Hope Commons Drive, at an ATM on Westgate Drive, a BP convenience store on North Alston Avenue and a Dollar General on Chapel Hill Road.
PUBLISHED APRIL 21, 2014 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE


SUSPECT CHARGED WITH FELONY LARCENY, RESISTING ARREST IN WEST CAMPUS INCIDENT
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
Duke University Police on Monday evening apprehended a man suspected of stealing a backpack from a Duke student in Perkins Library.
Late Monday, Jeffrey Alan Velez Jr., 20, of Durham, has been charged with felony larceny; resist, obstruct and delay officers; and second-degree trespass. He was being held in the Durham County Jail under a $5,000 bond. Velez had previously been trespassed from Duke property.
The theft was immediately reported to Duke police and the suspect, who is not a Duke student, was observed boarding a Duke bus.
After initially refusing to leave the bus, the suspect exited but resisted efforts by Duke Police to administer handcuffs. A Duke police officer on the scene finally approved the use of pepper spray to subdue the suspect.
Contrary to some initial reports on the incident, Duke Police did not use a Taser or other electroshock device with the suspect.
PUBLISHED JUNE 20, 2014 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE



ARREST MADE IN DUKE BIKE THEFTS
Duke Police recommend using U-locks to protect bikes on campus
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
The Durham Police Department on Friday arrested and charged a Durham man in connection with a series of bicycle thefts across Duke's campus and Durham.
Garry Raines was charged with three counts of misdemeanor larceny, three counts of entry to personal property, one count of trespassing and is pending a probation violation.
Duke Police worked in conjunction with the Durham Police Department to apprehend Raines, who, investigators say, stole upward of 20 bikes in the past month. Many bikes were taken from Duke's campus.
In each case of bicycle theft, a pair of wire cutters was used to break through wired locks, said William Higgins, interim investigations sergeant with Duke Police. Duke Police recommend all students, faculty and staff secure bikes to a bike rack with a U-lock, which is stronger than a cable or chain. In addition, Duke community members should take these steps to secure bicycles:
	•	When locking a bike, don't just secure the front tire because a thief can detach the frame. Place a U-lock through the frame and front tire.
	•	Record a bike's serial number, which is normally found on the bottom of a crankset. That will aide in recovering a lost or stolen bike.
	•	Have a bike engraved for free by Duke Police to help identify property if it's stolen.
Duke community members are encouraged to report suspicious activity by calling Duke Police at (919) 684-2444.
SHARE THIS STORY
PUBLISHED JULY 25, 2014 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE
POLICE MAKE ARREST IN BANK CARD THEFTS
Man accused of rummaging through unattended purses on campus and taking banks cards
LEANORA MINAI
A 34-year-old Durham man was arrested and charged Friday with identification theft and larcenies on Duke’s campus.
Police say Kayin Navar Wilkes dug through purses and wallets sitting unattended in plain view in Duke University Hospital and nearby research buildings and removed financial transaction cards. The incidents occurred in June through Thursday.
“He’ll walk into an office and if he sees a wallet or pocketbook laying around, he’ll go through it and remove bank cards,” said Duke Police Investigator Art Holland, who searched with a probation officer Friday to locate Wilkes at an East Main Street apartment in Durham.
Wilkes is charged with two counts of identification theft, two counts of financial card fraud, three counts of misdemeanor larceny and obtaining property by false pretense. He is booked in the Durham County Jail on $50,000 bond.
Other charges are pending, police say.
“While we are always disappointed when such crimes occur in our environment, the prompt and thorough investigation by our police department is commendable,” said Kyle Cavanaugh, vice president for administration and emergency coordinator.
Duke community members are reminded to stow personal property and not leave valuables unattended. Find tips on personal and property safety on the Duke Police website.
PUBLISHED FEBRUARY 4, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE
CRIME ALERT - ARMED ROBBERY REPORTED ON CENTRAL CAMPUS
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
A student reported an armed robbery on Central Campus at the intersection of Anderson St. and Lewis St. just after midnight. The student was approached by a male of medium complexion standing about 6' 4" tall and weighing about 250 lbs. He held a handgun up across his chest and demanded the student's purse. The suspect was wearing a white sweat shirt and dark jeans. He had short dark hair and fled in the passenger side of a gray or silver car, which headed toward Erwin Dr.No injuries were reported related to the incident.If you have any information related to this incident, please contact the Duke University Police Department at 919-684-2444. This message is being sent to all Duke students, faculty and staff in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act(also known as the Clery Act), which requires colleges and universities to provide timely notification to members of the university community of certain crimes reported on campus. The information in this message has not been verified by law enforcement authorities and may change as a result of further investigation.  We encourage you to visithttp://duke.edu/police for future updates.
PUBLISHED FEBRUARY 10, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE
DUPD RELEASE SKETCH OF SUSPECT IN ARMED ROBBERY
The incident took place at approximately 12:05 a.m. Feb. 4
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF

The Duke University Police Department has released an artist’s sketch of a person of interest from anarmed robbery committed on campus Feb. 4.
The man is described as having short black hair, a medium skin complexion and stands about 6 feet tall, weighing approximately 270 pounds with a not athletic, but not obese build. At the time of theincident, he was reportedly wearing a light gray or white V-neck sweat top and dark pants. 
The incident took place just after midnight on Central Campus at the intersection of Anderson and Lewis streets, where the man left the area in a silver or gray four-door vehicle driven by an unknown person. 
Duke and Durham community members with any information regarding the identity of the man are encouraged to contact Duke Police at (919) 684-2444 or investigator JL Frisbie at (919) 684-4714. 
PUBLISHED JUNE 18, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE

PUBLIC SAFETY NOTICE: INDECENT EXPOSURE ON CENTRAL CAMPUS
Police seeking information on suspect
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
A female resident in the apartments on Duke University’s Central Campus reported that a man exposed himself outside her apartment early Thursday morning.
The incident occurred at about 4 a.m. after the resident reported hearing knocking at the sliding glass door on the patio of her apartment. The woman said the blinds to the door were open, and the man then exposed himself to her. She closed the blinds, and the man left shortly afterward without further incident.
The suspect is described as a white male in his late teens or early twenties. He stood about 5’8” tall and was bald. He was wearing a blue shirt with stripes and khakis pants.
If you have any information related to this incident, please contact the Duke University Police Department at 919-684-2444.
PUBLISHED JULY 24, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE

CRIME ALERT: ARMED ROBBERY REPORTED NEAR SWIFT AVE.
No injuries reported
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
Editor's Note:
This message was sent to all Duke students, faculty and staff in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act(also known as the Clery Act), which requires colleges and universities to provide timely notification to members of the university community of certain crimes reported on campus.
An armed robbery was reported early Friday at 1:40 a.m. near 301 Swift Avenue. Two suspects, one of whom had a handgun, approached the victim and demanded money.The suspect then left the scene, and no injuries were reported.
One suspect was described as a male, dark complexion, and tall. The second suspect was described as a dark complexion male and shorter than the first. Both were wearing dark clothing. The two suspects left in a gold colored car heading toward N.C. Highway 147.
Duke Police encouraged individuals to travel together and use Duke Transit to move around campus late at night.
Officials urge anyone with information related to this incident to contact the Duke University Police Department at (919) 684-2444. Report suspicious activity to 911.
PUBLISHED JULY 26, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE
SAFETY NOTICE: OFF-CAMPUS ROBBERY REPORTED ON DOUGLAS ST.
No injuries reported
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
A visiting medical student reported being robbed at gunpoint Sunday night shortly after 10 p.m. just off of Duke's West Campus.
The incident occurred on Douglas St., which is north of Erwin Road near Research Drive. The victim, who was not injuried, said that two males approached him and one brandished a gun. After robbing the victim, the suspects then fled on foot in the opposite direction of campus.
One suspect was described as a black male in his 20s with hair braids. He was was wearning a blue shirt and light shorts. The second suspect was described as a juvenile, but no other details were available.
Because the case occured off campus, the Durham Police Department is handling the investigation.
"While this crime did not occur on campus, we felt it was important to notify the Duke community as a safety precaution," said Kyle Cavanaugh, vice president for administration. "We are thankful no one was injuried, and we encourage anyone with information that might help in the investigation to contact Durham Police."
Anyone with information about the case is asked to contact the Durham Police at (919) 560-4427 or Durham CrimeStoppers at (919) 683-1200. CrimeStoppers pays cash rewards for information leading to arrests in felony cases. Callers may remain anonymous.
 
PUBLISHED JULY 27, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE
POLICE RELEASE SKETCHES OF ROBBERY SUSPECTS
Community asked to help identify suspects
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF

The Duke University Police Department has released an artist’s sketch of the two suspects from an armed robbery committed along Swift Avenue on July 24, 2015.The first suspect is described as a male in his late 20s or early 30s with a very dark, almost black complexion. He has dark hair and stands between 5 feet 6 inches to 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighs around 145 pounds. The man, who was holding the gun, also appeared to be right handed. The second suspect is described as a bald male about 20 to 25 years with a dark brown complexion. He stands about between 6 feet 1 inch to 6 feet 2 inches tall and weighs about 180 pounds. The robbery took place early Friday at 1:40 a.m. near the apartments at 301 Swift Avenue. Both suspects fled the scene in a gold colored car.“The safety of our community is our first priority,” said Kyle Cavanaugh, vice president for administration. “We are hopeful that these sketches may help someone in the community recognize these suspects as part of our investigation.”Investigators are seeking assistance in identifying two suspects involved in the robbery.  Anyone who has information about the possible identities should call Duke Police Investigator Jeff Frisbie at 919-684-4714 or Durham CrimeStoppers at (919) 683-1200. CrimeStoppers pays cash rewards for information leading to arrests in felony cases. Callers may remain anonymous.crime
PUBLISHED AUGUST 21, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE


POLICE MAKE ARREST IN SEXUAL ASSAULT CASE
Information from community leads to quick arrest
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
Duke Police arrested and charged a man with second-degree sexual offense for an assault of a female student on campus early Thursday morning.
Ahmad Hezam, 45, was arrested early Friday morning at his apartment on 1315 Morreene Road.
“I just want to commend the investigators with the Duke Police Department for their swift action to identify and apprehend the suspect in this case,” said Kyle Cavanaugh, vice president for administration.
Cavanaugh said that information brought forward from the Duke community following the announcement of the incident helped lead directly to the arrest.
“We are grateful for the community’s quick response to provide critical information in the investigation,” he said. “Because of this information, we were able to make an arrest within 24 hours of the incident.”
Duke Police received a report late Thursday afternoon of a sexual assault of a female student by a taxi driver. The incident occurred on Science Drive of Duke’s West Campus. 
The student reported taking a taxi with others from Shooters II on West Morgan Street. After returning to campus and once the other passengers had left, the student reported that the taxi driver touched her inappropriately. The student was able to exit the vehicle and run away.
The taxi has been impounded as part of the investigation, and Hezam is being held in the Durham County Jail with bond set at $500,000.
PUBLISHED SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE
CRIME ALERT: ARMED ROBBERY REPORTED ON CENTRAL CAMPUS
No injuries reported
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
Editor's Note:
This message was sent to all Duke students, faculty and staff in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act(also known as the Clery Act), which requires colleges and universities to provide timely notification to members of the university community of certain crimes reported on campus.
On Sept. 2 at approximately 12:03 a.m., an armed robbery was reported near 1901 Erwin Road on Central Campus. The suspects displayed a handgun. They were last seen fleeing in an SUV on Erwin Road towards Ninth Street.The two suspects are described as dark complexion males, in their 20's, both about six feet tall.  One suspect wore a dark t-shirt, one had dark sweat pants.
If you have any information related to this incident, please contact the Duke University Police Department at 919-684-2444. This message is being sent to all Duke students, faculty and staff in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act(also known as the Clery Act), which requires colleges and universities to provide timely notification to members of the university community of certain crimes reported on campus. The information in this message has not been verified by law enforcement authorities and may change as a result of further investigation.  We encourage you to visit http://duke.edu/police for future updates.
PUBLISHED OCTOBER 18, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE


CRIME ALERT: BURGLARY REPORTED ON CENTRAL CAMPUS
No injuries reported
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
Editor's Note:
This message was sent to all Duke students, faculty and staff in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act(also known as the Clery Act), which requires colleges and universities to provide timely notification to members of the university community of certain crimes reported on campus.
On Sunday, October 18 at approximately 6:30 a.m. two residents of Central Campus reported seeing an unknown male in their apartment.  The male is described as a college-aged white male, thin build, short hair, wearing a t-shirt and blue jeans.  Two laplops are missing from the apartment.  There is no sign of forced entry.If you have information about this incident, please call the Duke University Police at 919-684-2444.Reminders.Lock and close doors.Report unusual activity to the police; 911 or 919-684-2444.
PUBLISHED OCTOBER 18, 2015 IN CAMPUS, WORKING@DUKE




CRIME ALERT: BURGLARY REPORTED ON CENTRAL CAMPUS
No injuries reported
BY DUKE TODAY STAFF
Editor's Note:
This message was sent to all Duke students, faculty and staff in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act(also known as the Clery Act), which requires colleges and universities to provide timely notification to members of the university community of certain crimes reported on campus.
On Sunday, October 18 at approximately 6:30 a.m. two residents of Central Campus reported seeing an unknown male in their apartment.  The male is described as a college-aged white male, thin build, short hair, wearing a t-shirt and blue jeans.  Two laplops are missing from the apartment.  There is no sign of forced entry.If you have information about this incident, please call the Duke University Police at 919-684-2444.Reminders.Lock and close doors.Report unusual activity to the police; 911 or 919-684-2444.

