March 1, 2014
On Saturday, March 1, 2014 an unaffiliated female reported to the Cambridge Police Department that she was robbed by an unknown male as she walked along Memorial Drive near Plympton Street at approximately 12:50 AM. The victim stated that while walking on Memorial Drive she was grabbed from behind by an unknown male who took her wallet from her. The victim struck the male who then pushed the victim to the ground. The offender fled the area in the direction of JFK Street. The victim was not injured during the incident.
Because this incident did not occur on Harvard University property, it is being investigated by the Cambridge Police Department. If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Cambridge Police Department at 617-349-3368. Those who wish to submit tips anonymously via phone email, and text message, should visitwww.CambridgePolice.org/Tips.
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212. Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone.
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city. Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible. Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance. The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate. Additional escort and transportation information can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/transportation_escorts.php.
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily. If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department. If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist.
If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department. For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found atwww.hupd.harvard.edu/playing_it_safe.php.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

April 23, 2014
Posted on 04/23/2014 5:02 PM  On Tuesday, April 22, 2014 at approximately 1:50 PM, a female graduate student reported to the Harvard University Police Department that as she was entering her building at Peabody Terrace she observed an unknown male indecently exposing himself to her. As she was proceeding to her apartment she again observed the same male in the building. She immediately entered her apartment and contacted the police.   The victim was not able to provide a detailed description of the offender at that time. This incident is under investigation.   If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Harvard University Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796.    If at any time you observe someone acting in a suspicious manner in the area or attempting to enter residences, please call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 immediately. Suspicious behavior may include a stranger knocking on your door and asking an out-of-place question, such as did you lose these keys, or making an excuse for being found in your room (“I was looking for…”). Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store this number in their cell phone. Failing to notify the police immediately can seriously hinder the follow-up investigation.   The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city. Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take appropriate precautions. If you are out after dark, try to travel in groups, use only well-lit routes or designated pathways, and do not allow yourself to be distracted by phone calls or by using ear buds. Make use of shuttle buses, and van service. You should also note the location of blue light phones. You can learn more about the shuttles and van service at http://www.transportation.harvard.edu/shuttle-van-services.   Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance. The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.   If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.   For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/playing_it_safe.php.   For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu. 
April 22, 2014
Posted on 04/22/2014 8:58 PM  On Monday, April 21, 2014 at approximately 1:20 AM, a female undergraduate student reported to the Somerville Police Department that she was assaulted by an unknown male as she walked down Beacon Street in the area of 358 Beacon Street near an alley that leads to Oxford Street in Cambridge. The victim reported that the male grabbed her arm and pulled her into the alley. The victim screamed for help and defended herself against her attacker. The victim then fled the area and called the police. The victim did not see in which direction the offender fled.   The victim was unable to provide a detailed description of the offender.   Because this incident did not occur on Harvard University property, it is being investigated by the Somerville Police Department. If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Somerville Police at 617-625-1600. Those who wish to submit tips anonymously via text message should text "TIP411" (847411) and put "617spd"at the beginning of the text message.   If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212. Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store this number in their cell phone. Failing to notify the police immediately can seriously hinder the follow-up investigation.   The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city. Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take appropriate precautions. If you are out after dark, try to travel in groups, use only well-lit routes or designated pathways, and do not allow yourself to be distracted by phone calls or by using ear buds. Make use of shuttle buses, and van service. You should also note the location of blue light phones. You can learn more about the shuttles and van service atwww.uos.harvard.edu/transportation/passenger_transport_services/.   Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance. The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.   If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.   For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/playing_it_safe.php.   For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu. 
April 25, 2014
Posted on 04/25/2014 3:27 PM 4/24/14, 8:17 PM 
UPDATE - Based on a joint investigation by the HUPD and the Cambridge Police Department a suspect has been identified and is due in court early next week.
Community Advisory 
Indecent Exposure  Peabody Terrace, Cambridge
On Tuesday, April 22, 2014 at approximately 1:50 PM, a female graduate student reported to the Harvard University Police Department that as she was entering her building at Peabody Terrace she observed an unknown male indecently exposing himself to her. As she was proceeding to her apartment she again observed the same male in the building. She immediately entered her apartment and contacted the police.
The victim was not able to provide a detailed description of the offender at that time. This incident is under investigation.
If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Harvard University Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796.
If at any time you observe someone acting in a suspicious manner in the area or attempting to enter residences, please call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 immediately. Suspicious behavior may include a stranger knocking on your door and asking an out-of-place question, such as did you lose these keys, or making an excuse for being found in your room (“I was looking for…”). Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store this number in their cell phone. Failing to notify the police immediately can seriously hinder the follow-up investigation.
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city. Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take appropriate precautions. If you are out after dark, try to travel in groups, use only well-lit routes or designated pathways, and do not allow yourself to be distracted by phone calls or by using ear buds. Make use of shuttle buses, and van service. You should also note the location of blue light phones. You can learn more about the shuttles and van service at http://www.transportation.harvard.edu/shuttle-van-services.
Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance. The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.
If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/playing_it_safe.php.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
August 19, 2014
On Tuesday, August 19, 2014 a male staff person reported to the Cambridge Police Department that he was robbed at gunpoint by two males as he walked on Church Street at approximately 2:50AM.  The victim stated that while walking on Church Street with two persons he had just met one of them threw him against a wall while the other male held what the victim believes to be a gun against his head and removed his wallet and other personal belongings.  The offenders fled the area down Brattle Street towards Freshpond.  The victim was not injured during the incident.      Because this incident did not occur on Harvard University property, it is being investigated by the Cambridge Police Department.  If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Cambridge Police Department at 617-349-3368.   Those who wish to submit tips anonymously via phone email, and text message, should visitwww.CambridgePolice.org/Tips.    If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone.    The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found at http://www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.      Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist.     If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's annual security report entitled "Playing it Safe”, which can be found at http://www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report .  For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
October 2, 2014
On Thursday, October 2, 2014 starting at approximately 1:50 AM Harvard University Police Department officers responded to four different incidents of either an unlawful entry (burglary) or attempted entry at four different locations in Harvard Yard.   
In two of the incidents an unknown offender attempted to gain entry to both Dudley House and Straus Hall by either removing the screen or attempting to open a window.  In one of the incidents the offender was scared away when the occupant of the room observed the attempted entry. 
In another incident an unknown offender entered an occupied bedroom in a suite and immediately fled the area when he came into contact with occupants of the room.  Prior to fleeing the suite the offender stole a bag of coins. 
In the last incident HUPD officers responded to Wigglesworth Hall on the report of an unknown male banging on doors.  The male was gone upon the officers arrival.
In two of the incident the offender was described as a white male in his 30s, with light curly hair, and dark clothing (possibly a Bruins jersey.)   
It is unclear whether all of these incidents are connected. All of these incidents are being actively investigated by HUPD detectives.  If you have any information about these incidents, please call the Harvard University Police Department Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796.
Although unlawful entries (burglaries) into occupied rooms are very rare, the HUPD wants to remind you of precautions you should take to keep yourself and your valuables safe. 
	•	Residents should not prop interior or exterior doors at any time, hold an outside door open for strangers or allow strangers to “piggyback” on their access card. 
	•	Residents should keep their room doors locked at all times even when in the room or when going down the hall for only a few minutes. 
	•	If at any time you observe someone acting in a suspicious manner in your building or attempting to enter residences, please call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 immediately.  Suspicious behavior may include a stranger knocking on your door and asking an out-of-place question, such as “did you lose these keys,” or making an excuse for being found in your room (“I was looking for …”). 
	•	Residents should close their windows when leaving their rooms, even for short periods of time; should not disengage the “ventilation stop” on first-floor windows; and should keep all property away from windows in order to prevent someone from reaching in and removing it. 
	•	If you arrive home and it appears that entry has been made to your room, please do not enter.  Call the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212 from the safety of a neighbor’s room.  At no time should you enter the room, touch anything, or confront someone in the room or the building.  
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's annual security report entitled "Playing it Safe”, which can be found atwww.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report . 
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
October 3, 2014
At about 4:45 this afternoon, hundreds of Harvard students and affiliates received an emailed death threat.  The author threatened to come to campus “tomorrow” to shoot the email recipients.  Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) immediately began investigating, and also notified other local law enforcement agencies as well as the FBI. 
 While we cannot verify at this time that this is a real threat, every member of our community should be familiar with these Active Shooter Safety Guidelines, which were developed based on guidance from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
HUPD will increase its presence across campus this weekend.
If you see anything suspicious, have immediate safety concerns or have any pertinent information to share, please contact the HUPD at 617-495-1212.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
October 3, 2014
The HUPD is continuing to actively investigate the threatening email sent to some members of the community this afternoon.  Detectives are coordinating their investigation with numerous law enforcement agencies following up upon several leads.
At this time it is not clear that this is a credible threat.
The HUPD has significantly increased both its uniformed and plainclothes presence this weekend.
At this time the campus remains open and operations have not been curtailed. 
Once again community members are reminded to call the HUPD at 617-495-1212 if you observe any suspicious activity or have an immediate safety concern. 
October 4, 2014
Initial findings from HUPD's investigation of the threat emailed last night to hundreds of Harvard affiliates, while not complete, seem to indicate that the email originated overseas.  As a result, it appears at this time that the threat may not be credible.  
However, HUPD and other law enforcement agencies continue to investigate and will continue to treat the email very seriously.  A heightened security presence -- both uniformed and plainclothes -- will be maintained on campus today and this weekend.  
In the meantime, every member of our community should be familiar with these Active Shooter Safety Guidelines (www.hupd.harvard.edu/active-shooter-safety-guidelines), which were developed based on guidance from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
If you see anything suspicious, have immediate safety concerns or have any pertinent information to share, please contact the HUPD at 617-495-1212.
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's annual security report entitled "Playing it Safe”, which can be found atwww.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
October 8, 2014
The Harvard University Police Department wants to update you regarding the threats that were emailed to Harvard affiliates on Friday, over the course of the weekend, and early this week.
The HUPD’s investigation has revealed sufficient information to support the conclusion that that the emails do not pose a credible threat to the campus at the present time.  While we cannot reveal details of an ongoing investigation, we can confirm that the emails did originate from overseas. 
The Harvard University Police Department will continue to work with the FBI to take whatever actions it can to resolve the situation.  We will provide further updates when there are significant developments in the investigation, and thank you for your patience as the investigation has proceeded.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
November 12, 2014
The Harvard University Police Department wants to provide an update and resources available as a result of the October 3 threatening email and subsequent messages.  First and foremost, please know that the HUPD has treated this incident as a hate crime from its onset.  The investigation, which involves the HUPD collaborating with federal and international law enforcement authorities, is active and ongoing. 
Any person who receives an email or other social media contact (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.) that concerns you we ask that that you forward that email toreportacrime@hupd.harvard.edu.  Emails sent to that account will be reviewed by a team of detectives to determine appropriate follow-up.
Below please find information on keeping your identity secure, how to block this sender, or anyone else in the future who you do not want to have contact with, from contacting you, and how to maintain your privacy on Facebook.       
Personal Information
Information from the Federal Trade Commission on “How to Keep Your Personal Information Secure
www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0272-how-keep-your-personal-information-secure
Filtering/Blocking Unwanted Emails
Gmail: https://support.google.com/mail/answer/8151?hl=en
	•	Open the email that you want to filter.
	•	On the right hand side use the pull down menu and select : “Filter messages like this”
	•	In the window that opens up select “Create filter” with this search, from the bottom right corner
	•	On the next window choose the option that you wish to happen to all of the emails from this sender and then click on the “Create Filter” button
Google’s policy on harassment from a Gmail user: 
https://support.google.com/mail/answer/29434?hl=en 
Reporting abuse to Google and Gmail
https://support.google.com/mail/contact/abuse?hl=en
Microsoft and Hotmail
http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/outlook/abuse-phishing-junk-email
Outlook
http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/outlook-help/add-a-name-to-the-blocked-senders-list-HP005243402.aspx
	•	Right click on the email that you wish to block, then select the Junk item from the list and select either “Block Sender” or “Junk Email Options”.
	•	If you chose “Junk Email Options” a new window pops up with several tabs.  Select the blocked senders tab.
	•	Click on add.  A new window pops up prompting you to type in the email address you wish to add to the blocked senders list.
Privacy on Facebook
On the top right of any Facebook page, use the dropdown menu (white arrow symbol) and select “Settings.”  In the left column, select “Privacy.”
To restrict friend requests:
	•	In the window “Who can send you friend request?” choose “Friends of Friends” option
	•	Facebook does not have an option of blocking a person who is not already your friend.  If you get an unwanted friend request, mark it as unwelcome. Eventually the sender will be banned from sending future requests. 
You can also filter messages you get in your Facebook inbox:
	•	For “Whose messages do I want to filtered  into my Inbox?” select “Strict filtering”
	•	To limit the visibility of your email and telephone number you provided FB with, go to “Who can look me up?” window and select “Friends” or “Friends of Friends.”  
You can also restrict the visibility of your Facebook account in search results.
	•	In the go to “Who can look me up?” window, open “Do you want other search engines to link to your timeline” and select “No.”
If at any time you feel uncomfortable or are concerned about your safety please contact the HUPD at 617-495-1212. 
December 10, 2014
On Wednesday, December 10, 2014 a female graduate student reported to the Cambridge Police Department that she was robbed by an unknown male as she walked along Banks Street at approximately 1:30 AM.   The victim stated that while walking on Banks Street she was struck from behind by an unknown male who took her tote bag that contained personal items, including her laptop and wallet.  The victim suffered injuries in this incident and received immediate medical attention. 
Because this incident did not occur on Harvard University property, it is being investigated by the Cambridge Police Department.  If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Cambridge Police Department at 617-349-3368.   Those who wish to submit tips anonymously via phone email, and text message, should visitwww.CambridgePolice.org/Tips.
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone. 
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.   .  
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist. 
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

April 21, 2015
On Sunday, April 19, 2015 at approximately 12:45 PM, a female resident of Quincy House reported to the Harvard University Police Department that she observed an unknown male indecently exposing himself in a hallway near a laundry room.  The female contacted the HUPD to report the activity.  Officers immediately responded to the area and encountered a male in the hallway.  The male fled the area.  The officers searched the area but were unable to locate the individual.
The offender is described as a black male in his early thirties, approximately 5’10”, medium to heavy build, dark complexion, blemished face, wearing a tweed hat and sport coat and shorts.
If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Harvard University Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796. 
If at any time you observe someone acting in a suspicious manner in the area or attempting to enter residences, please call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 immediately.  Suspicious behavior may include a stranger knocking on your door and asking an out-of-place question, such as did you lose these keys, or making an excuse for being found in your room (“I was looking for…”).  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store this number in their cell phone.  Failing to notify the police immediately can seriously hinder the follow-up investigation.
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city. Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take appropriate precautions. If you are out after dark, try to travel in groups, use only well-lit routes or designated pathways, and do not allow yourself to be distracted by phone calls or by using ear buds.  Make use of shuttle buses, and van service. You should also note the location of blue light phones. You can learn more about the shuttles and van service at http://www.transportation.harvard.edu/shuttle-van-services.
Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance. The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.
If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's annual security report entitled "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

May 20, 2015
On Wednesday, May 20, 2015 at approximately 3:00 AM three female undergraduate students reported to the Harvard University Police Department that they were robbed while walking through the Sunken Gardens in Radcliffe Yard.  The victims stated that they were approached by a male who displayed what appeared to be a knife and demanded their purses.  The victims fled the area and did not give over their property.  The victims were not injured during the incident.
If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact the Harvard University Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796. 
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone. 
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing walking escorts, taxi escort (Longwood campus), the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.  
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist. 
If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open. Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's annual security report entitled "Playing it Safe”, which can be found at http://www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report .
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

May 20, 2015
UPDATE - 5/20/15, 8:00 PM - Based on an investigation by HUPD detectives, a suspect has been identified and arrested for this crime. 
Anyone with additional information can still contact the Harvard University Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796. 
July 3, 2015
On Friday July 3, 2015 at approximately 3:15 AM a male summer school student reported to the Harvard University Police Department that he was robbed at gunpoint while walking down Arrow Street towards Bow Street.  The victim stated a dark colored sedan stopped and two males jumped out of the car and struck him in the face and head with two handguns.  The offenders ordered him to the ground.  While on the ground the offenders removed his headphones, money, and other personal items.  The victim suffered minor injuries but refused medical treatment.
There was another armed robbery approximately 15 minutes earlier on Franklin Street involving a nonaffilate and most likely the same two offenders. 
Because these incidents did not occur on Harvard University property, they are being investigated by the Cambridge Police Department.  If anyone has any information regarding these incidents, please contact the Cambridge Police Department at 617-349-3368.   Those who wish to submit tips anonymously via phone email, and text message, should visitwww.CambridgePolice.org/Tips.
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone. 
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing walking escorts, taxi escort (Longwood campus), the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.  
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist. 
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's annual security report entitled "Playing it Safe”, which can be found athttp://www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report .
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

August 18, 2015
The following information was released by the Massachusetts State Police this morning. 
Massachusetts State Police Media Release–08-18-2015–State Police Investigate Early Morning Sexual Assault in Cambridge
Massachusetts State Police are investigating the sexual assault of a 24-year-old woman along Memorial Drive in Cambridge early this morning.
The woman, a Boston resident, had left a Cambridge bar shortly before closing time and was walking toward the river. At approximately 2 a.m. she was near the Weld Boat House on Memorial Drive when she was approached by a man on a bicycle. As she tried to walk away, the assailant physically and sexually assaulted her. The victim screamed for help; two witnesses in the area heard her and ran toward her, at which point the assailant got back on his bike and fled. 
The victim was transported to St. Elizabeth’s Hospital for treatment. She has since been released.
The assailant is described as a white male, estimated to be in his late 20s to early 30s, with a stocky build and blonde or light brown hair. As previously mentioned, he was riding a bicycle prior to and after the assault.
Anyone with information about this incident or the assailant is urged to call Massachusetts State Police Troop H Detectives at (617) 740-7875.
No further information is being released at this time.
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone. 
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.   .   
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist.  
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

September 9, 2015
The following alert was just released by the Cambridge Police Department.
Safety information below the alert.
Cambridge Police Highlight Recent Increase in Indecent Assault & Batteries  in Harvard Square Area CAMBRIDGE, Mass., September 9, 2015 -- The Cambridge Police Department are cautioning women who live, work or frequent the Harvard Square area to be aware of a recent increase in Indecent Assault and Batteries.    Officers are currently investigating a report that a woman was indecently assaulted while walking near the intersection of Garden Street and Massachusetts Avenue towards Harvard Square last night at approximately 8:30 p.m. The victim reports a suspect bumped into her with his shoulder and then grabbed her buttocks.  The suspect fled from Harvard Square and a search of the area by the Cambridge Police did not generate any results.     The victim stated the suspect was a black male in his mid-20s, approximately 5'10" with a stocky build, short hair and a white t-shirt.    As noted in a recent community advisory, similar incidents have occurred in the following areas:
	•	Garden Street on Wednesday, August 26 at approximately 10:15 p.m.
	•	Brattle Square on Friday, August 28 at approximately 7:35 p.m. 
	•	Massachusetts Avenue on Sunday, August 30 at 7:23 p.m. (Ronald Cattouse was arrested for Indecent Assault & Battery)
	•	New: Garden Street on Monday, August 31 at approximately 8:20 p.m.
	•	The suspect(s) in these incidents was described as a black male with a stocky build, approximately 5’8” – 5’10”.
Outside of Harvard Square, the Cambridge Police have made two recent Indecent Assault and Battery arrests.   Bruce Burke, Jr., a 25-year-old from 240 Albany Street in Cambridge, was arrested on Sunday, August 6 after a woman was indecently assaulted while walking on Cambridge Street near Middlesex Probate and Family Court at approximately 7:44 p.m.  Burke reportedly passed a group of woman on a Cambridge Street sidewalk, reached back and intentionally slapped one victim on her buttocks with an open hand.  He reportedly smiled, laughed and continued to walk away.  Officers with the Cambridge Police Department quickly located Burke standing in the dark against a nearby house after the victim provided them with a description.  He was placed under arrest and transported to the Cambridge Police.
Ronald Byrd, a 50-year-old from 53 Woodbine Street in Quincy, was arrested for Indecent Assault and Battery on Thursday, September 3 after he was witnessed by officers on Massachusetts Avenue in Central Square inappropriately touching a woman sleeping on a street bench.     Cambridge Police are actively working with the Harvard University Police Department to investigate these incidents and have directed patrols in the Harvard Square area. At this point in the investigation, it has not been determined if the suspects who have been arrested are connected to the outstanding Indecent Assault and Batteries. Anyone with information about these incidents are encouraged to call the Cambridge Police Department at 617-349-3300, submit anonymous tips by texting Tip411 (847411) -  begin your message with Tip650 and then type your message - or e-mail via the Cambridge Police MyPD app. 
             # # # The Cambridge Police Department is committed to the enforcement of laws and preservation of order that protect the rights and property of every person within the City of Cambridge. Our mission is to provide the highest quality of police service and to impact crime, and its associated elements, through the utilization of new and proven crime prevention strategies and problem-solving partnerships with our community.  For more information, follow@CambridgePolice on Twitter, or access the department’s Facebook page atwww.facebook.com/CambridgePolice.
Media Contact:   Cambridge Police Department  Public Information Office
617-349-3237
pio@cambridgepolice.org
From the Harvard University Police Department:
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-495-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone. 
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.   . 
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist.  
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report. 
For transportation and escort information please visit www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.  
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

September 15, 2015
The following information was released by the Boston Police Department this morning.
Harvard-specific safety information below the BPD alert.
Community Alert: BPD Investigating Alleged Sexual Assault in Fenway Area
September 15, 2015
At about 12:30 AM on Tuesday, September 15, 2015, officers from District D-4 (South End) responded to a radio call for a alleged sexual assault in the area of Queensberry Street in the Fenway.
Upon arrival, officers spoke to the victim who stated that a suspect forced her into her apartment then sexually assaulted her. The suspect is described as a white male in his mid-twenties, approximately 6’0” tall with a medium build and scruffy shadow growth on his face. The suspect was wearing a gray hoodie, dark jeans, and black sneakers.
The Boston Police Sexual Assault Unit is actively reviewing the facts and circumstances surrounding this incident.  Anyone with any information is asked to call detectives directly at (617) 343-4400.
Community members wishing to assist this investigation anonymously can do so by calling the CrimeStoppers Tip Line at 1(800) 494-TIPS or by texting the word ‘TIP’ to CRIME (27463). The Boston Police Department will stringently guard and protect the identities of those who wish to help this investigation anonymously.
TIPS FOR ENSURING YOUR PERSONAL SAFETY:
	•	Always be aware of your surroundings, especially at night. When parking, walking or returning to your car, remain in well-lit and populated areas.
	•	Avoid walking alone late at night. When possible, walk with friends and people you know.
	•	Be watchful and aware. Keep your head up. Make quick eye contact with those around you and be observant of passing vehicles.
	•	Don’t become distracted by talking on a cell phone or listening to an iPod/similar device.
	•	Keep a whistle within reach. If you feel threatened, use it to signal residents that you need help. Yelling words like: “Fire!” “Help!” or “Rape!” are other effective ways of drawing attention and alerting people that you need assistance.
	•	Hold your car keys in your hand to use as a weapon against an attacker.
	•	Before going out, call ahead to let friends or family know you’re on the way. Designate a time you expect to arrive, so that in the event you fail to show up on time, they’ll know enough to begin looking for you.
	•	Walk with confidence. Be assertive. Don’t let anyone violate your space. Trust your instincts and know that anyone at any time can be a victim of crime. Never assume: “IT WILL NEVER HAPPEN TO ME.”
	•	If an unarmed attacker confronts you, believe in your ability to scare, distract, or even incapacitate the attacker enough to escape.
	•	Wear sneakers or shoes that allow for added mobility.
From the Harvard University Police Department:
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-432-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone. 
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.   .  
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist. 
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
October 7, 2015
At approximately 6:50 PM this evening, Harvard University Police Department officers were dispatched to respond to a report of a fight in progress behind the Harvard-Epworth United Methodist Church at 1555 Massachusetts Avenue, which abuts the campus of Harvard Law School.  Officers responded to the scene and observed an unidentified male standing over another male lying on the ground.  The unidentified male's face was covered in blood and when officers instructed him to lie on the ground he refused their commands and show his hands.  One of the officers observed what he believed could have been a knife in the male’s hand.  
October 23, 2015
On Friday October 23, 2015 at approximately 3:55 AM a female resident of the Holden Green affiliated housing complex reported to the Harvard University Police Department that she was approached by an unknown male who followed her to her doorway.  The victim stated while walking her dog she saw the mini-van pull in.  The victim felt something wasn’t right and immediately started running toward her doorway.  The unknown male ran after her but she was able to get in the door and lock it.  The offender banged on the door and immediately fled back to the van which was driven by an unseen individual.
The offender is described as a white male in his early twenties, short cropped light colored hair, approximately 6 feet tall, with wide shoulders and a muscular build, wearing a brown Carhatt (work) jacket 
The mini-van was described as an older model (2000-2001) dark colored van, possibly green van, make unknown, with a sliver bumper.
If you have any information about these incidents, please call the Harvard University Police Department Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796.
The Harvard University Police Department has assigned uniformed officers to patrol the Holden Green complex area. 
If at any time you observe any type of suspicious activity or have been the victim of a violent crime, regardless of the location of the incident, please notify the Harvard University Police Department immediately at 617-432-1212.  Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to store the HUPD’s urgent number in their cell phone. 
The Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in an urban setting and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city.  Community members should be vigilant while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas both during the day and at night and to take the appropriate precautions, such as walking with others and utilizing the shuttle bus and evening van service whenever possible.  Students, faculty, and staff also may call the Harvard University Police Department at 617-495-1212 if they believe they are in danger while waiting for transportation due to the hour or circumstance.  The Harvard University Police Department will assist with transportation whenever appropriate.  Additional safety, escort, and transportation information can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/your-role-staying-safe.   .  
Persons should avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily.  If you suspect you are being followed, stay away from dimly lit areas and head for a store or building that you know to be open.  Trust your instincts. If you feel uncomfortable about someone near you, head for a populated area and call the Harvard University Police Department.  If you are approached by someone displaying a weapon and demanding your property, it is recommended that you comply with the request and not resist. 
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report. 
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.
The unidentified male fled the area and the officers pursued him.  After a lengthy foot pursuit, HUPD, CPD, and Transit Police officers located the suspect in a backyard on Follen Street.  The individual was placed under arrest for outstanding warrants.  A subsequent search of the area did not produce a knife.   
Upon return to the scene, officers observed blood in the area but could not locate a victim or the person the arrested party was standing over upon the officer’s arrival.  It is unclear how the unknown male was injured or if, in fact, a stabbing occurred.  
The arrested individual is not affiliated with the University.  
For more detailed information on safety and security please read the Harvard University Police Department's "Playing it Safe" booklet, which can be found at www.hupd.harvard.edu/annual-security-report. 
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department's Public Information Officer, Steven G. Catalano, at 617-495-9225 or by email atsteven_catalano@hupd.harvard.edu.

