MIT Police Crime Alert Bulletin  Breaking and Entering  Issued: February 13, 2014  Incident: Between February 11 and 12 there have been three reports of thefts from residents’ rooms in Burton Connor. The rooms were closed but unlocked, which is burglary. These incidents happened between 4:00 am and11:00 am, and as late as 5:00 pm.There were 4 additional reports of theft from Mac Gregor and New House which occurred in January and have now been classified as burglary through investigation.
Summary: The victims all state their doors were closed but unlocked. Laptop computers, i-Pad, perfume, checkbooks, and a brass rat were reported stolen.  Suspect: There are no descriptions of suspects.

MIT Police Crime Alert  Bulletin     Issued: February 24, 2014  INCIDENT On Monday, February 24, 2014 an MIT student was the victim of a telephone scam stating her brother was involved in a motor vehicle accident and that they wanted $2,000 for their nephew who was injured in the accident or they would kill her brother. The victim believed the caller and followed instructions, purchasing a large amount of prepaid phone cards.  SUMMARY The victim states when her cell phone rang, she answered it and a male caller stated he had her brother and if she didn't help them they would "kill" her brother. NOTE: her brother is fine when he was reached later.  SUSPECT There are no suspects at this time.

Crime Alert Bulletin
October 20, 2014
Incident: At approximately 1:20 a.m. shots were fired in the area of 265 Massachusetts Ave.
Summary: MIT Police were monitoring the Cambridge Police radio and heard a call for vehicles shooting at each other in the area of 265 Mass. Ave., the MIT Museum. The vehicles in question had fled and damage was sustained to the windows of the MIT Museum.
Suspect: The description of four possible vehicles involved are as follows: a white sedan, a black Maxima and two SUV type vehicles. This is an active investigation and no additional information is available at this time.

Crime Alert Bulletin
Burglary October 27, 2014  Incident: SPE fraternity at 518 Beacon Street was entered from a second floor window, accessed from the fire escape, and items stolen. Incident occurred at approximately 4:30 am, Tuesday, October 28, 2014.  Summary: An unknown suspect opened a unlocked window off the fire escape who then entered and stole several laptops, a cellphone and money. A fraternity brother had been studying  in the common area of the second floor, and left the area for approximately 15 minutes. Upon returning felt a cold breeze from the window, and then noticed a male standing in the room. The suspect fled the fraternity towards Beacon Street.  Suspect: The victim describes the suspect as follows: male, very darks skinned black, 5’8” to 5’10”, approximately 150 – 180 pounds, wearing a black leather jacket with fur collar and dark pants.

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. February 23, 2015 – The Cambridge Police Department and MIT Police Department want residents and students to be aware of an aggravated assault and unarmed robbery that took place on Saturday, February 21 at approximately 9:52 p.m.
A 29-year-old Cambridge resident reported to the Cambridge Police Department that he was the victim of an assault while walking on Main Street – in the 700th block – towards Boston. He reports he was approached from the backside by an unknown, black male wearing a black knit-style cap. The victim explained that the suspect asked, “Can I have a dollar?” The victim continued to walk and did not answer the suspect. The victim was then assaulted, pushed to the ground and shoved into a snow bank. The suspect was accompanied by another male, who struck the victim’s head, face and body. The victim handed the suspects $25 and his cell phone. The suspects fled on foot and the victim was treated and transported to a local hospital for non-life threatening injuries.
“Based on the victim’s accounts, this appears to be a crime of opportunity,” stated Deputy Superintendent Paul Ames. “At night, in particular, we encourage anyone walking alone to be aware of their surroundings and do not resist if you are approached.” To avoid being victimized, Cambridge Police suggest that individuals take the following precautions when walking at night:
 
	•	Do not wear earbuds, headphones, or listen to music while walking alone.
	•	Always walk with a friend or in a group when possible.
	•	Be aware of your surroundings at all times and trust your instincts.
	•	Walk with confidence on the street and at a good, steady pace. Keep your head up and observe your surroundings.  Don't look down at the ground.
	•	If you feel you are being followed, show you are suspicious – Turn to look at the person. This sends a clear message that you will not be taken by surprise.
	•	Change directions.  If someone is following you on foot, cross the street and vary your pace. If the person following you is in a car, turn and walk in the opposite direction.
	•	If approached, DO NOT RESIST.  The best course of action is to hand over money and whatever other belongings are demanded and try to disengage from this confrontational and potentially dangerous situation as soon as possible. Remember, things can always be replaced.
	•	Try to remember descriptive information about the robber (height, age, race, etc.) to relay to police when reporting the incident.

Crime Alert Bulletin
Indecent Sexual Assault
Issued: June 15, 2015
INCIDENT: On Monday, June 15 at approximately 5:00 a.m. a female student reported she was the victim of an indecent sexual assault. The victim reports meeting a male at a religious location outside of Harvard Square, in the Longfellow Park area, and walked back to an MIT residence hall.
SUMMARY: The victim met the suspect at Sunday church service and began talking with him. He asked her out to lunch and she declined. They continued talking while walking back to campus, the suspect touched hugged, kissed and fondled  her. The survivor had told the suspect that it is not okay to touch her. The suspect is believed to not have any affiliation with MIT, and might be living out of his vehicle in the Harvard Sq. area.
DESCRIPTION: The victim describes the suspect as follows: white male, approximately 25 years of age, approximately 5’7”, a close cropped beard, has a mole or birthmark on his left side of his nose and wearing eye glasses. The suspect stated he was a Navy veteran, and wore a distinctive ring on his right hand. He was wearing a blue suit with a white shirt and suspenders.

Crime Alert Bulletin
Unarmed Robbery
Issued: June 18, 2015
INCIDENT: On Thursday, June 18, 2015 at approximately 3:00 a.m. a male student reported that when he was entering a dormitory on Albany St. he was approached by two males who used a ruse of asking for directions.
SUMMARY: The victim stated that he began to run when approached and was caught by the suspects, who then told him to “drop it”,  referring to his wallet which he had in his hand. They grabbed his wallet and fled towards Pacific St. turning right onto Landsdown St.
DESCRIPTION: The victim described the suspects as follows: (1) male,  light skinned black, curly hair, early twenties, approximately 5’8”, about 180 pounds and wearing a white hoodie. (2) male, dark complexion, approx.. 5’8”, wearing a red hoodie.

Police Arrest Suspects Connected to a Series of Armed Street Robberies
Cambridge, Lawrence, Brookline and Boston, Mass. -- July 4, 2015 – Two men and two juveniles were arrested in Lawrence following a series of armed robberies that took place in Cambridge, Brookline, Boston, and Lawrence on Friday morning.
Michael Ellis, 20, 99 Broadway in Haverhill; King Sheman, 19, 33 Story Avenue in Newburyport; and two male juveniles out of Newburyport and Amesbury were arrested by the Lawrence Police Department on Friday morning after the suspects pistol whipped and robbed a victim in Lawrence of their phone and wallet.  The suspect’s vehicle – a black Volkswagen – and two weapons – a black and silver BB gun – were recovered.  Shortly thereafter, detectives from the Cambridge Police Department, Boston Police Department and Brookline Police Department responded to the Lawrence Police Department to interview the suspects and review the recovered evidence since they matched the descriptions provided by each of the victims in the respective cities. Initial property recovered included belongings from the Cambridge victims.
Due to the preliminary investigation and property recovered, the departments are highly confident that these suspects were involved in the armed robberies that took place throughout the four cities Friday morning. Cambridge, Boston and Brookline anticipate formally charging the suspects following the completion of their investigation.
Anyone with information related to these incidents are asked to contact their local police department.
 
Cambridge Police Share Information on Pair of Armed Street Robberies in Riverside Neighborhood The Cambridge Police Department is asking residents to be vigilant as they investigate two separate armed robbery incidents that took place early this morning in the Riverside neighborhood. 
At approximately 2:30 a.m., two roommates walking home to their Putnam Avenue residence from the Central Square area were robbed at gunpoint. The victims observed a dark colored sedan traveling in the wrong direction on Franklin Street towards Putnam Avenue in their direction. When the vehicle was in close vicinity to the victims, two male suspects jumped out of the vehicle, pointed a small, dark handgun at them, and grabbed their purses and a cell phone. They then fled in the vehicle, which they described as driven by a third suspect and traveling in an unknown direction. 
Approximately 30 minutes later, a student reported to the Harvard University Police Department that he was robbed at gunpoint while walking down Arrow Street towards Bow Street.  Cambridge Police also responded and the victim stated a dark colored sedan stopped and two males jumped out of the car and struck him in the face with what he believed to be a handgun and the head with an unknown object.  The offenders ordered him to the ground.  While on the ground, the offenders removed his headphones, money, and other personal items.  The suspects then drove off with another suspect in an unknown direction. The victim suffered minor injuries, but refused medical treatment.
The suspects are described as black males, possibly in their 20s, wearing dark-colored clothing and hoodies, and in possession of black or silver handguns.
Cambridge Police are actively investigating these incidents. Anyone with information is asked to call the Cambridge Police at 617-349-3300.   Those who wish to submit tips anonymously via phone, email, and text message, should visit www.CambridgePolice.org/Tips.
To avoid being victimized, Cambridge Police encourage all persons to take the following precautions when walking at night: Do not wear earbuds, headphones, or listen to music while walking alone. Always walk with a friend or in a group when possible. Be aware of your surroundings at all times and trust your instincts. Walk with confidence on the street and at a good, steady pace. Keep your head up and observe your surroundings.  Don't look down at the ground. If you feel you are being followed, show you are suspicious – Turn to look at the person. This sends a clear message that you will not be taken by surprise. Change directions.  If someone is following you on foot, cross the street and vary your pace. If the person following you is in a car, turn and walk in the opposite direction. If approached, DO NOT RESIST.  The best course of action is to hand over money and whatever other belongings are demanded and try to disengage from this confrontational and potentially dangerous situation as soon as possible. Remember, things can always be replaced. Try to remember descriptive information about the robber (height, age, race, etc.) to relay to police when reporting any potential incidents. Please call the police immediately to report an incident. Do not handle any property that may be potential evidence. Allow the police to retrieve evidence. More safety tips are available on the Cambridge Police Department’s website at http://www.CambridgePolice.org/SafetyTips. ### The Cambridge Police Department is committed to the enforcement of laws and preservation of order that protect the rights and property of every person within the City of Cambridge. Our mission is to provide the highest quality of police service and to impact crime, and its associated elements, through the utilization of new and proven crime prevention strategies and problem-solving partnerships with our community.  For more information, follow @CambridgePolice on Twitter, or access the department’s Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/CambridgePolice.

Breaking and Entering August 3, 2015
Incident: MIT Senior House, 70 Amherst Street, was the location of a breaking and entering.  The break occurred on the second floor of the building at around 12:00 AM on Monday, August 3, 2015.
Summary:  An unknown suspect broke a second floor window of Senior House and gained access to the building.  Dorm patrol discovered the broken glass and called after the intruder.  The intruder fled the area toward Ames Street.  MIT Police and the Massachusetts State Police K-9 unit responded.  A search of the building confirmed that intruder had left the area.
Suspect: There is no suspect description at this time and the investigation is ongoing.  Evidence found at the scene could indicate the perpetrator has a recent, large laceration.  Other items found at the scene include a camouflage backpack, a field shovel, a canteen, and dirty clothing.

UPDATE: Dorchester Resident Summonsed for Kendall Square Indecent Assault and Battery  CAMBRIDGE, Mass., August 4, 2015 – A 29-year-old Dorchester man will be summonsed to court for Indecent Assault and Battery following an investigation by the Cambridge Police Department of an incident that took place in Kendall Square Saturday morning. The suspect will appear in Cambridge District Court on a date-to-be-determined.
“In addition to the good work of our detectives, patrol officers and the MIT Police, the Cambridge Police would like to thank the citizens and the media for their assistance in helping us identify this suspect,” said Deputy Superintendent Steven DeMarco. “We received a number of useful tips, which assisted in expediting our investigation.”
CITIZEN ALERT: Cambridge Police Alert, Indecent Assault and Battery in Kendall Square   August 1, 2015 – The Cambridge Police Department is asking residents to be vigilant after a female reported that she was touched inappropriately by a black male after exiting the Kendall Square train station.  At approximately 7:20 AM a female reported that after exiting the Kendall Square train station, she was approached by a black male, after a brief conversation the black male grabbed the woman’s buttocks. The female yelled then punched the suspect in the face. This seemed to startle the male who then walked away.  The B/M is described as medium build with dreadlocks, wearing a red shirt and black pants.
