Missing Person 1/27/2014 5:30pm
The Stanford Department of Public Safety was notified of a missing adult female, mid 50's, who was last seen leaving Quillen Court, in Escondido Village, on 1/27/2014 at 5:30pm.
She left on foot, direction unknown. She is described as an Asian female, 5'1", 120 lbs; with black hair and brown eyes. She was last seen wearing a black puffy jacket, dark colored leggings, gray Nike shoes, carrying a green and gray backpack. She is unfamiliar with the area and there could be a language barrier.
If seen, please contact Stanford Department of Public Safety at 650-723-9633. If after 5pm, please call Palo Alto Communications at 650-329-2413.
Further updates when available will be posted on this website
UPDATE: Missing Person 1/28/14 3pm
The Stanford Department of Public Safety was notified that the female reported missing from Quillen Court at Escondido Village, has been located and is reported safe.
RESIDENTIAL BURGLARY 1/29/14 2PM
On Wednesday, January 29, 2014, the Department of Public Safety received a call that a burglary occurred between 2:00 and 3:00 PM. The incident occurred at Barnes Court in Escondido Village. An unknown suspect entered an unlocked door to an apartment and took jewelry and computer equipment. The suspect is still at large and there is no description available.
The Stanford Police encourage residents to lock all doors and windows. Call 9-1-1 and report any similar incidents or suspicious activity as soon as possible. Additional updates will be posted when information becomes available.
Bicycle-Riding Purse Snatch
Police are searching for a bicycle-riding purse snatcher who committed two crimes within fifteen minutes last night in and near downtown Palo Alto. There were no injuries and the suspect remains at large.
On Wednesday, January 29, 2014, at about 6:54 p.m., the 24-hour dispatch center received a 9-1-1 call reporting that a suspect had just stolen a woman’s purse in the 400 block of University Avenue. The victim, a woman in her sixties, had been dining at an outdoor sidewalk table of a restaurant. She had placed her purse under the table. The suspect walked up and said, “Excuse me.” He reached down, grabbed her purse, and ran eastbound on University Avenue before getting onto a dark-colored bicycle. The victim called out for help, and a passerby gave chase on foot. The passerby last saw the suspect riding eastbound on Lytton Avenue from Cowper Street. The victim was not injured.
At about 7:32 p.m., police received a call reporting a strong-arm robbery attempt that had occurred around 6:45 p.m. at a bus stop on Quarry Road near Palo Road. The victim, a woman in her sixties, was standing at the bus stop when the suspect approached her on a bicycle. He tried to take her purse off her shoulder as he rode by, but the victim held onto the purse. They both struggled over the purse for a brief moment, but the victim was able to keep it. The suspect rode away westbound on Quarry Road, and was last seen heading south towards Palm Drive on either Sweet Olive Way or Arboretum Road. The victim was not injured, and returned home to call police.
Despite an extensive area search after both crimes, officers could not find the suspect.
The victims provided similar descriptions of the suspect. They described him as a male (described as possibly white, Hispanic, or Asian) in his late teens or early twenties, between 6 feet and 6 feet 3 inches tall, with a thin build. They said he was clean-shaven. He was wearing a black jacket and blue jeans, and may have been wearing a white hat. They said his bicycle was dark in color, and may have had whitewall tires. It is possible that the victims may be able to meet with a police sketch artist; if a sketch is produced, it will be released as soon as it becomes available.
Detectives do not know if the suspect intentionally targeted these victims due to their age, or if he targeted them due to the circumstances and opportunities unique to each case.
Police recommend that you remain aware of your surroundings at all times, and we ask that you report suspicious behavior immediately via 9-1-1. Purses should be worn close to the body, with a firm grip kept on them, to dissuade would-be robbers.
Anyone with information about either of these crimes is asked to call the 24-hour dispatch center at 650-329-2413.
Residential Burglaries 2/4/14
On Tuesday, February 4, 2014, the Department of Public Safety received reports of two (2) residential burglaries, both occurring in Escondido Village.
Victims reported laptops, cameras, and money missing. Entry was made through unlocked and opened kitchen windows. Both recent burglaries occurred between 10:45am and 6:45pm. The suspect(s) is still at large and there is no description available.
The Stanford Police encourage residents to lock all doors and windows even when the home is occupied. Call 9-1-1 and report any similar incidents or suspicious activity as soon as possible. Additional updates will be posted when information becomes available.
Community Alert, Vehicle Thefts
Four vehicles have been stolen from the Stanford University campus from mid December 2013 through today’s date as follows:
December 15, 2013 – January 4, 2014 from the 600 block of Salvatierra
January 5 - 10, 2014 from the Kingscote Garden Apartments parking lot
February 4, 2014 from the Maples Pavilion parking lot between 6am – 4pm
February 7, 2014 from the groves near Arboretum Rd and Lasuen from 7am – 4:20pm
All of the stolen vehicles were Honda makes -- three (3) Accords and one (1) Civic.
At this time, there are no descriptions of the individual(s) responsible for the thefts.
To minimize the potential for theft, the Stanford police suggest the use of an auto alarm and / or a theft deterrent tool, such as a steering wheel lock device. Additionally, ensure that you lock your vehicle and take your valuables with you. Police recommend that you remain aware of your surroundings and report suspicious behavior immediately by calling 9-1-1.
Anyone with information about either of these crimes is asked to call the 24-hour dispatch center at 650-329-2413.
Suspicious package reported at Tresidder
Police are investigating report of a suspicious backpack of concern near Tresidder Union. Out of an abundance of caution, a bomb squad has been called to investigate. Tresidder, Dinkelspiel and Old Union are currently closed.
The campus community is asked to stay away from the area while police investigate. A bomb squad is en route. The area is expected to be closed for up to two hours until police can conclude the investigation. Continue to check here for updates.
Update to suspicious package reported at Tresidder
Out of an abundance of caution, other buildings near Tresidder Union including the Faculty Club and Humanities Center have been evacuated. A suspicious backpack was identified at Tresidder Union by police, and a bomb squad unit is on the scene to investigate.
If you are in a building which has not been evacuated by police, including buildings along Capistrano Way, please shelter in place (stay inside) or exit AWAY from Tresidder Union. The area will remain closed for another hour or two. Please avoid the area around Tresidder Union.
This incident impacts ONLY the area surrounding Tresidder Union. The rest of the campus is open and classes have not been canceled.
For further updates to this situation, please visit emergency.stanford.edu
Update: Tressider Union area is all clear
All buildings in the Tresidder Union area have reopened and normal operations are resuming. Campus police thank everyone for their cooperation, attention and patience while law enforcement conducted their investigation today. After a thorough investigation of the suspicious backpack, which prompted concern in the manner in which it was abandoned, no threat was found.
This will be the final posting. A recap of today’s situation will be available later this afternoon at news.stanford.edu
Update on Residential Burglaries 2/14/14
Six (6) burglaries have taken place in Escondido Village over the past sixteen (16) days. The first three have been mentioned in previous community alerts.
	•	January 29, 2014 – Barnes Court from 2:00 – 3:00pm
	•	February 4, 2014 – Hoskins Court from 10:45am – 6:45pm
	•	February 4, 2014 – Olmsted Road from 10:45am – 6:45pm
	•	February 10, 2014 – Dudley Lane from 10:00am - 6:45pm
	•	February 12, 2014 – Rains Complex from 12:00pm - 5:00pm
	•	January 26, 2014 – February 13, 2014 from Hulme Court
Entry was made through unlocked windows in four (4) occurrences and through an unlocked door in two (2) incidents. In five (5) instances, the occupants were not inside at the time of theft. Victims reported electronic devices as well as other easily concealable property taken.
The suspect(s) is still at large and there is no description at this time.
Stanford Police have increased patrol in the area. We encourage residents to lock all doors and windows prior to leaving their residences. Anyone with information concerning these and previous residential burglaries are asked to contact the 24 hour dispatch center at (650) 329-2413. Call 9-1-1 to report any similar incidents or suspicious activity as soon as possible.
This information is being reported to you in accordance with the Clery Act.
Reported Sexual Assault, 2/14/2014
On February 14, 2014, a Campus Security Authority notified the Stanford Police Department that a male may have sexually assaulted a female student in a residence located in the 1000 block of Campus Dr. According the reporting party, the incident took place on February 8 – 9, 2014.
Stanford University does not tolerate sexual assault, sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. The university encourages anyone who has been sexually assaulted or subject to other forms of sexual misconduct or harassment to report the incident to university officials.
The information about this incident is being reported to you in accordance with the Clery Act. The remainder of this email provides information about preventing and reporting sexual assault.
	•	Ignorance of the law or of university policy concerning sexual assault, sexual misconduct and sexual harassment is not a defense.
	•	Receive affirmative consent from your partner before engaging in sexual activity.
	•	Perpetrators may attempt to use alcohol to facilitate a sexual assault. Statistically, the majority of reported sexual assaults occur while one or both parties are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Alcohol or drugs may impair one’s ability to judge whether or not consent has been given, but it is never an excuse for choosing to violate another person.
	•	There are a number of drugs that may be added to beverages with the intent of altering the consciousness or incapacitating a person without their knowledge. These drugs are particularly dangerous when combined with alcohol and often produce amnesia, leaving a victim unclear about what occurred afterward. These drugs can facilitate criminal activity; most often acts of sexual misconduct or sexual assault.
We encourage individuals to think about the following points to help protect yourself and others from consuming drinks that may have been tampered with harmful substances:
	•	Do not accept previously prepared drinks, especially from persons that you do not know or intimately trust.
	•	Drink from tamper-proof bottles and cans and insist on opening them.
	•	Insist on pouring or watching while any drink is mixed or prepared.
	•	Do not drink from group drinks such as punch bowls.
	•	Keep an eye on your drink or open soda can. Do not trust someone to watch it for you.
	•	If you think you've been drugged, do not be afraid to seek medical attention IMMEDIATELY. There is a short window of time to ensure appropriate response and medical treatment in these cases and they could result in serious health complications and consequences.
	•	If someone passes out or is exhibiting signs that they may have been given drugs, call for medical attention IMMEDIATELY and explain your concerns.
	•	If you suspect that you or someone you know has been drugged, contact the Stanford Department of Public Safety or your Residence/Graduate Life Dean (or ask that someone do it for you) IMMEDIATELY.
If you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, or if you aren’t sure whether you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, there are a number of resources available to you at Stanford to inform you of your options and to support you in whatever path you choose to take in addressing the incident. For more information contact:
Sexual Assault and Relationship Abuse (SARA) Officehttps://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/sara   Sexual Harassment Policy Office https://harass.stanford.edu   Diversity and Access / Title IX Office  https://diversityandaccess.stanford.edu/title-ix   or the Stanford Department of Public Safety via this website or by calling (650)723-9633 during regular business hours. 
Unauthorized Entry; Occupied Residence
On Sunday morning, February 23, 2014, at approximately 3:45am, an unknown intruder entered a residence at Lagunita court through an unlocked door. One of the residents confronted the intruder and ordered him to leave; the intruder complied and left. The intruder's intent in entering the residence is unknown.
The reporting party described the suspect as follows: male, 19-23 years old, East Indian descent, 5'10" tall, 155 lbs, with black curly hair and brown eyes; he was unshaven. The suspect was wearing a green zippered jacket, a navy colored shirt and blue jeans.
Anyone with information should contact the Stanford Police at 650-329-2413.
The Stanford Police encourage residents to lock all doors and windows. Call 9-1-1 and report any similar incidents or suspicious activity as soon as possible.
Additional updates will be posted on this website when information becomes available.
Update to Unauthorized Entry; Occupied Residence
As reported in a prior AlertSU email, an unknown intruder entered a residence at Lagunita Court on Sunday, Feb. 23, 2014, at approximately 3:45 a.m. The intruder entered the residence through an unlocked door. One of the residents confronted the intruder and ordered him to leave; the intruder complied and left. The intruder's intent in entering the residence was unknown at that time.
After further investigation, it has been determined that the person who allegedly trespassed into the residence is a Stanford student whose judgment and cognitive abilities were impaired by alcohol. The matter has been referred to the Office of the Vice Provost for Student Affairs for follow-up.
As outlined in the Stanford University Student Alcohol Policy, our community expects that all students should understand the physical and behavioral effects of alcohol misuse, and should avoid such misuse themselves. In addition, they are asked to do their part to ensure the safety of fellow students who they perceive to be engaged in reckless drinking behavior or to be suffering from its consequences.
The Office of Alcohol Policy and Education is a resource for students and others who want to better understand the impact of alcohol on behavior and decision making. For more information http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/alcohol/policy
Community Crime Alert, 3/4/14, 9:10PM
Three separate incidents have been reported to the Stanford Department of Public Safety (DPS) and are being reported to you in accordance with the Clery Act. The incidents are not believed to be related to one another.
On February 26, 2014, a Campus Security Authority notified DPS that a female student had reported that a male acquaintance sexually assaulted her on February 21, 2014 at an undisclosed private residence on campus.
On March 2, 2014, a female student reported to DPS that an unknown male, possibly a student, gave her a drink which she believes may have contained a substance which caused her to become extremely dizzy and vomit. The incident occurred on March 2, 2014 at a student residence on the 700 block of Santa Ynez.
On March 4, 2014, a Campus Security Authority notified DPS that a female had reported that a male student had sexually assaulted her on February 27, 2014 at a student residence on the 500 block of Alvarado Row. According to the victim, the perpetrator used significant force during the assault, including choking her.
Stanford University does not tolerate sexual assault, sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. The university encourages anyone who has been sexually assaulted or subject to other forms of sexual misconduct or harassment to report the incident to university officials.
If you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, or if you aren't sure whether you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, there are a number of resources available to you at Stanford to inform you of your options and to support you in whatever path you choose to take in addressing the incident. For more information contact:
Sexual Assault and Relationship Abuse (SARA) Officehttps://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/sara   Sexual Harassment Policy Office http://harass.stanford.edu   Diversity and Access / Title IX Office  https://diversityandaccess.stanford.edu/title-ix   or the Stanford Department of Public Safety via this website or by calling (650)723-9633 during regular business hours.
Peeping Incident 03/05/14
On Wednesday, March 05, 2014, at approximately 8:35am, a peeping incident occurred in a student dormitory near the 400 Block of Mayfield Ave. The suspect used an iPhone to possibly record a woman taking a shower. No description of the suspect is available.
The Department of Public Safety reminds the community to be aware of your surroundings. Call 911 to report suspicious person/activity to the Stanford Police.
Reported Assault and Battery, 4/21/2014
At approximately 12:05am on Tuesday, April 22, 2014, the Department of Public Safety received a call that a female had been grabbed from behind at the waist at approximately 11:05pm on Monday night, 4/21/14.
The incident occurred while the victim was walking between Green Library and Cubberly School of Education in the area of Lasuen Mall. The victim was able to break free and fled the area.
The suspect was described as male, but the victim could provide no further description.
Police recommend that you remain aware of your surroundings at all times, walk in pairs at night, and report suspicious activity as soon as possible by calling 911 or activating the nearest blue Emergency Tower.
Further updates to this incident will be posted on this website when available.
Robbery, 04/24/2014, 7:58 PM
At 7:58 PM on 04/24/2014, an alleged robbery occurred at the Stanford Shopping Center. The suspect was last seen in the area of Quarry and Arboretum near the Mausoleum Groves. A police perimeter was set up however the suspect was not located. The reported items taken were small clothing items. The subject was described as a black male in his early 20's with short hair, around 5’11", and weighing approximately 175lbs wearing a black beanie and a red and white shirt with brown pants. The current clothing description is unknown as some of the reported clothing was located in the Mausoleum Grove area.
The Stanford University Department of Public Safety urges community members to remain aware of their surroundings at all times, and we ask that you report suspicious behavior immediately by calling 911.
Anyone with additional information should contact the Stanford Police at 650-329-2413. Additional information will be posted at http://police.stanford.edu if it becomes available.
Gas Line Break
At approximately 10:10am on Tuesday April 29, 2014, a gas leak was reported in the area of 641 Campus Dr, near the Arrillaga Family Sports Center. Police and fire are on scene. Westbound Campus Drive is closed at Bonair Siding and Eastbound Campus Drive is closed at Galvez. The area is currently being evacuated. Stay away from the area until further notice.
Additional updates will be posted as available on this website
Update to Gas Line Break, 10:45 a.m.
Campus Drive between Bonair Siding and Galvez will be closed until at least 11:15 a.m. Check this site for updates.
Gas Line Break Update, 11:22 a.m.
Campus Drive between Bonair Siding and Galvez will be closed until at least noon. The following buildings are closed until further notice: .
The following buildings remain closed until further notice:
Taube Family Tennis Stadium, Arrillaga Family Sports Center, and Taube South Tennis Courts
The Avery Aquatic Center and Cobb Track remain open. Pedestrians may enter the area via Galvez or from the rear of Maples Pavilion.
Check this site for updates.
Update to Gas Line Break, 12:02 p.m.
Campus Drive between Bonair Siding and Galvez will be closed until at least 2 p.m.
The Taube Family Tennis Stadium, Arrillaga Family Sports Center, and Taube South Tennis Courts remain closed. Check this site for updates.
Closures due to Gas Line Break Extended Further, 1:30 p.m.
The road closure at Campus Drive between Bonair Siding and Galvez has been extended until at least 3:30pm while repairs are made.
Buildings/facilities which remain closed as a result of this incident include Taube Family Tennis Stadium, Arrillaga Family Sports Center, and Taube South Tennis Courts.
IT Services has reported that some users may be experiencing issues with limited internet access and VoIP telephone service interruptions also as a result of this incident.
Check back with this site for further updates. Gas Line Break Update, 4/29/14, 3:34pm
Campus Drive between Galvez St. and Bonair Siding is expected to remain closed in both directions until at least 9:00pm this evening as a result of the gas line break reported earlier today, 4/29/14. Once gas line repairs and testing have been completed, a follow up message will be sent to the community.
All traffic, both vehicular and pedestrian, is to avoid the area until further notice. Buildings which remain closed and without power include the Arrillaga Family Sports Center, Taube Family Tennis Stadium, and Taube South Tennis Courts.
Note: vehicles which are currently parked in PS-7, beneath GSB/Knight Management Center, WILL be allowed to exit the parking structure by turning right onto Campus Drive East.
Further updates will be posted on this website as available.
Gas Line Break Update, 4/29/14, 9:07pm
The gas leak in the area of 641 Campus Drive on 4/29/14 has been repaired. Gas service has been restored, and the entire area has been reopened to vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
Community Alert: Bomb Threat Hoax
Stanford is one of several locations across the country to have received intentional reports of non-existent emergencies. Over the past week, Stanford Police received telephone calls in which the callers made vague allegations of having placed a bomb in an unspecified area of campus. In one of the calls, laughter was heard in the background. Stanford Police quickly investigated each phone call and determined it not to be credible. The false reports appear to be part of a phenomenon known as "swatting," in which participants win "points" based upon the level of police response to a called-in hoax.
The Department of Public Safety wishes to emphasize the following points to the campus community about this matter.
First, intentionally reporting an emergency when none exists places the community at risk by diverting resources from real emergencies.
Second, falsely reporting crimes or emergencies is a crime. Stanford Police will conduct a thorough investigation of all such incidents. Offenders will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. In California, the law allows for the full cost recovery of an emergency response from the person perpetrating the hoax. The FBI and local law enforcement have successfully traced and prosecuted previous swatting incidents in various locations around the country.
Third, members of the campus community should not hesitate to call 911 or activate the nearest blue emergency tower to report crimes in progress or suspicious activity that you believe warrants a police response. Additionally, practice your safety skills by remaining aware of your surroundings and being on the lookout for suspicious activity. Report any suspicious activity or packages immediately by calling 911 or 9-911 from a campus telephone. Stanford Police will use the AlertSU system to communicate with the campus community whenever there is a credible threat to personal safety.
Reported Sexual Assault
On May 7th, 2014, a Campus Security Authority notified the Stanford Police Department that a female student reported that she was sexually assaulted by a non-student male acquaintance in a vehicle parked near the intersection of Lomita and Santa Teresa the evening of May 5th, 2014. There was no alcohol involved in this situation.
Stanford University does not tolerate sexual assault, sexual misconduct or sexual harassment.The university encourages anyone who has been sexually assaulted or subject to other forms of sexual misconduct or harassment to report the incident to university officials.
The information about this incident is being reported to you in accordance with the Clery Act. The remainder of this email provides information about preventing and reporting sexual assault.
	•	Ignorance of the law or of university policy concerning sexual assault, sexual misconduct and sexual harassment is not a defense.
	•	Receive affirmative consent from your partner before engaging in sexual activity.
	•	Perpetrators may attempt to use alcohol to facilitate a sexual assault. Statistically, the majority of reported sexual assaults occur while one or both parties are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Alcohol or drugs may impair one's ability to judge whether or not consent has been given, but it is never an excuse for choosing to violate another person.
	•	There are a number of drugs that may be added to beverages with the intent of altering the consciousness or incapacitating a person without their knowledge. These drugs are particularly dangerous when combined with alcohol and often produce amnesia, leaving a victim unclear about what occurred afterward. These drugs can facilitate criminal activity, most often acts of sexual misconduct or sexual assault.
We encourage individuals to think about the following points to help protect yourself and others from consuming drinks that may have been tampered with harmful substances:
	•	Do not accept previously prepared drinks, especially from persons that you do not know or intimately trust.
	•	Drink from tamper-proof bottles and cans and insist on opening them.
	•	Insist on pouring or watching while any drink is mixed or prepared.
	•	Do not drink from group drinks such as punch bowls.
	•	Keep an eye on your drink or open soda can. Do not trust someone to watch it for you.
	•	If you think you've been drugged, do not be afraid to seek medical attention IMMEDIATELY. There is a short window of time to ensure appropriate response and medical treatment in these cases and they could result in serious health complications and consequences.
	•	If someone passes out or is exhibiting signs that they may have been given drugs, call for medical attention IMMEDIATELY and explain your concerns.
	•	If you suspect that you or someone you know has been drugged, contact the Stanford Department of Public Safety or your Residence/Graduate Life Dean (or ask that someone do it for you) IMMEDIATELY.
If you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, or if you aren't sure whether you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, there are a number of resources available to you at Stanford to inform you of your options and to support you in whatever path you choose to take in addressing the incident. For more information contact:
Sexual Assault and Relationship Abuse (SARA) Officehttps://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/sara   Sexual Harassment Policy Office https://harass.stanford.edu   Diversity and Access / Title IX Office  https://diversityandaccess.stanford.edu/title-ix   or the Stanford Department of Public Safety via this website or by calling (650)723-9633 during regular business hours.
Prowling Incident, 5/10/14
On Saturday morning, May 10, 2014, at approximately 3:23am, a prowling/peeing incident occurred at Rains Houses, in the 200 block of Rosse lane. A female living on the first floor awoke to the sound of her window opening. She confronted a white male in his 20's with short, dark hair and a dark t-shirt. The suspect apologized and said that he had the wrong room before he left.
The Stanford Department of Public Safety encourages individuals to be alert and take measures to protect yourself. Keep doors and windows locked. Call 911 to report suspicious activity.
Any updates will be posted as available on this website,
Interrupted Burglary 05/20/14
On 05/20/14 at 4:32pm, the Stanford Department of Public Safety responded to a call that there was an interrupted burglary at McFarland Court. At 5:05pm, a suspect was apprehended and is now in custody.
The Stanford police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. Additionally, we ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible.
Armed Person Seen
On 6/8/14 @ 3:38 AM Stanford Police received a report of an armed person on Lomita at Lomita Court (seen at approx. 3:00 AM). The suspect was described as a white male, 35 years-old with short dark brown hair, wearing a white shirt. The suspect had stopped to ask for directions and during the contact a handgun was seen, however it was not being pointed at the reporting party. The suspect was last seen driving away in the SUV, heading towards Mayfield from Lomita.
Be alert, stay away from the area and take measures to protect yourself. Updates will be posted as information becomes available.
Gas Line Break 6/9/14
At approximately 9:13 am on Monday June 9, 2014, a gas line break was reported in the area of Comstock and Escondido. Police, Fire and PG&E are on scene. Stay away from the area until further notice.
Additional updates will be posted as available on this website.
Gas Line Break Cleared 6/9/14
The gas line break in the area of Comstock and Escondido has been repaired as of 10:09am. The Escondido Village area is now clear and residents were allowed to return to their homes.
Work crews shut off the gas leaking from a 1 ½ inch line. The Palo Alto Fire Department has declared the area safe to reoccupy.
Brush Fire 6/14/14 8:54am
Department of Public Safety and the fire department responded to a brush in the foothills between Behavioral Science and the Observatory. Please stay away from the area.
Update: Brush Fire 6/14/14
The brush fire in the foothills between Behavioral Science and Observatory was caused by a broken power line. PG&E has restored and fixed the problem. The fire department has cleared the area and it is now safe for normal use. Thank you for your cooperation.
exual Battery, 8/7/2014
On August 8, 2014 at 6:15pm a female victim contacted the Stanford Police Department and reported that she was groped by an unknown male subject. The incident occurred near Stanford Avenue and Raimundo Way.
The victim identified the suspect as a Caucasian male adult in his mid twenties, approximately 6' 3", with a thin build. The victim further described the suspect as having short hair, a light beard, and wearing a light blue shirt with blue jeans. Additionally, the suspect had a tattoo with unknown writing on his right arm. The suspect was also walking a dog, described as a grey pit bull. The suspect was last seen walking on Stanford Avenue towards Peter Coutts Road.
The Stanford Department of Public Safety urges community members to be alert and remain aware of their surroundings at all times. Call 911 immediately to report suspicious activity to the Stanford Police Department.
Additional information will be posted on this website if it becomes available.
Sexual Battery Update 8/8/2014
The follow up investigation of the sexual battery that was originally reported on 8/7/2014 has revealed additional information as follows: On Thursday, August 7, 2014, at about 6:17 p.m., deputies from the Stanford Department of Public Safety responded to a report of a sexual battery that had just occurred, reportedly near Nixon Elementary School at 1711 Stanford Avenue on the campus of Stanford University. Deputies responded immediately but were unable to locate the suspect. After conducting the initial investigation, the deputies determined that the crime actually occurred in the 2300 block of Amherst Street in Palo Alto.
The investigation revealed that the victim, a woman in her fifties, was out for a walk. She initially observed the suspect walking his dog on California Avenue near Birch Street. When she was on California Avenue near Williams Street, the suspect walked up to her with his dog and engaged her in conversation. They walked together westbound on California Avenue for several blocks. The suspect began making inappropriate comments to the victim, and when they turned right onto Amherst Street, the suspect groped the woman’s buttocks and breast. When the victim took out her phone, the suspect fled in an unknown direction with his dog.
The victim described the suspect as a white male in his mid-twenties, about 6 feet 4 inches tall and 220 pounds. He was wearing blue jeans and a light blue buttoned shirt with the sleeves rolled up to his elbows. He has short brown hair and a closely-groomed beard. He had a tattoo on his right forearm with writing on it. The suspect’s dog was a gray and blue pitbull with white spots on each paw. The victim estimated the dog was about 80 pounds.
Palo Alto and Stanford Detectives are actively investigating this incident. This case is not related to two other battery cases that occurred in the same area last month; police arrested the suspect in those two cases.
Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call our 24-hour dispatch center at 650-329-2413.
The Stanford Department of Public Safety urges community members to be alert and remain aware of their surroundings at all times. Call 911 immediately to report suspicious activity to the Stanford Police Department. Additional information will be posted at this website if it becomes available.
Gas Line Break @ Lomita & Roth
At approximately 9:44 am on Monday, September 18, 2014, a gas line break was reported in the area of Lomita and Roth. Police, Fire are on scene and PG&E will be here in 45 minutes. No building evacuations have been made at this time. Stay away from the area until further notice.
Additional updates will be posted as available on this website.
Update to Gas Line Break,8/18/14 12:47pm
PG&E are on scene. Gas leak has been shut off. Repairs in progress. Please stay away from the area until futher notice.
Additional updates will be posted as available on this website.
Gas Line Break Cleared 8/18/14
The gas line break in the area of Lomita and Roth has been repaired as of 5:00pm. The area is now open to vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
Physical Assault Update 08/29/14
On 08/29/14, at approx. 9:11pm, a female adult reported that she was walking in the area of Palm Dr. and Campus Dr. when she was struck from behind with an unknown object that she believed to be a stick. The subject fled on foot in the direction of the Stanford Shopping Center. The female was injured and is currently being treated at Stanford Hospital
The suspect was described as a white male adult, in his 30’s, approx. 5' 7" and 140 lbs, fit build with short brown hair and wearing black shorts, white t-shirt, and black shoes.
The Stanford Department of Public Safety urges community members to be alert and remain aware of their surroundings at all times. Call 911 immediately to report suspicious activity to the Stanford Police Department. Additional information will be posted at this website if it becomes available.
Pepper Spray Incident, 9/5/14
At approximately 9:15am, on Friday, September 5, 2014, an individual working in a parking lot near the Clark Center was pepper sprayed by an unknown suspect.
The suspect was wearing a black hoodie with a bandana covering their face; age and ethnicity are unknown. The suspect was last seen traveling on Campus Drive towards Via Ortega coming from the Clark Center area.
The Stanford Department of Public Safety urges community members to be alert and remain aware of their surroundings at all times. Call 911 immediately to report suspicious activity to the Stanford Police Department. Additional information will be posted on this website if it becomes available.
Assault With Deadly Weapon--8/29/14
The Stanford Department of Public Safety is seeking witnesses to and information about an assault that took place on campus:
On Friday, August 29, 2014, at approx. 9:11pm, an unidentified male struck a female in the face with an unknown object -- possibly a baton or flashlight. At the time of the attack, the victim was walking westbound on the path adjacent to Campus Drive and was just east of the intersection of Campus Dr and Palm Drive. The suspect approached the victim from behind and struck her face with what she believed to be a stick or baton. The suspect immediately fled westbound on foot on Campus Drive towards the Stanford Shopping Center. He was last seen fleeing into a grove of trees that are west of Palm Drive. The victim sustained serious facial injuries.
The victim described her assailant as a white male adult, brown hair, 5 feet 7 inches tall, with a medium build. He was last seen wearing “athletic” clothing consisting of a white shirt, black shorts, and black shoes.
If anyone has any information concerning this incident, please call the Stanford Department of Public Safety at (650)723-9633.
Physical Assault Update 08/29/14
On 08/29/14, at approx. 9:11pm, a female adult reported that she was walking in the area of Palm Dr. and Campus Dr. when she was struck from behind with an unknown object that she believed to be a stick. The subject fled on foot in the direction of the Stanford Shopping Center. The female was injured and is currently being treated at Stanford Hospital
The suspect was described as a white male adult, in his 30’s, approx. 5' 7" and 140 lbs, fit build with short brown hair and wearing black shorts, white t-shirt, and black shoes.
The Stanford Department of Public Safety urges community members to be alert and remain aware of their surroundings at all times. Call 911 immediately to report suspicious activity to the Stanford Police Department. Additional information will be posted at this website if it becomes available.
Attempted Burglary 9/28/14
On Sunday, September 28, 2014, at approx. 2:30am, an attempted burglary occurred at Mirrielees Highrise. The suspect attempted to gain entry by prying open a window screen. The reporting party described the suspect as a possible Asian or Hispanic male in his early 20’s, approx. 5 feet 9 inches tall, wearing a black shirt and tan pants. The suspect was last seen walking away towards Campus Drive.
The Stanford Police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. Additionally, we ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible.
Additional information will be posted on this website if it becomes available.
Reported Sexual Assault 10/26/14
From Stanford PD, on 10/26/14 at approximately 5:10am Sunday morning Stanford Police responded to a call at Page Mill and Hansen from a distressed Stanford Student. The student reported that she may have been drugged and sexually assaulted. The location and time of the reported incident are unknown at this time.
Stanford University does not tolerate sexual assault, sexual misconduct or sexual harassment.The university encourages anyone who has been sexually assaulted or subject to other forms of sexual misconduct or harassment to report the incident to university officials.
The information about this incident is being reported to you in accordance with the Clery Act. The remainder of this email provides information about preventing and reporting sexual assault.
	•	Ignorance of the law or of university policy concerning sexual assault, sexual misconduct and sexual harassment is not a defense.
	•	Receive affirmative consent from your partner before engaging in sexual activity.
	•	Perpetrators may attempt to use alcohol to facilitate a sexual assault. Statistically, the majority of reported sexual assaults occur while one or both parties are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Alcohol or drugs may impair one's ability to judge whether or not consent has been given, but it is never an excuse for choosing to violate another person.
	•	There are a number of drugs that may be added to beverages with the intent of altering the consciousness or incapacitating a person without their knowledge. These drugs are particularly dangerous when combined with alcohol and often produce amnesia, leaving a victim unclear about what occurred afterward. These drugs can facilitate criminal activity, most often acts of sexual misconduct or sexual assault.
We encourage individuals to think about the following points to help protect yourself and others from consuming drinks that may have been tampered with harmful substances:
	•	Do not accept previously prepared drinks, especially from persons that you do not know or intimately trust.
	•	Drink from tamper-proof bottles and cans and insist on opening them.
	•	Insist on pouring or watching while any drink is mixed or prepared.
	•	Do not drink from group drinks such as punch bowls.
	•	Keep an eye on your drink or open soda can. Do not trust someone to watch it for you.
	•	If you think you've been drugged, do not be afraid to seek medical attention IMMEDIATELY. There is a short window of time to ensure appropriate response and medical treatment in these cases and they could result in serious health complications and consequences.
	•	If someone passes out or is exhibiting signs that they may have been given drugs, call for medical attention IMMEDIATELY and explain your concerns.
	•	If you suspect that you or someone you know has been drugged, contact the Stanford Department of Public Safety or your Residence/Graduate Life Dean (or ask that someone do it for you) IMMEDIATELY.
If you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, or if you aren't sure whether you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, there are a number of resources available to you at Stanford to inform you of your options and to support you in whatever path you choose to take in addressing the incident. For more information contact:
Sexual Assault and Relationship Abuse (SARA) Officehttps://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/sara   Sexual Harassment Policy Office https://harass.stanford.edu   Title IX Office  https://titleix.stanford.edu   Wellness Resources at Stanford https://wellness.stanford.edu  or the Stanford Department of Public Safety via this website or by calling (650)723-9633 during regular business hours. 
Mountain Lion Sighting 10/28/14
A mountain lion was seen on 10/28/2014 at 8:46pm, in the vicinity of 738 Frenchman's Road, along the edge of the road. Public Safety has searched the area and there are no additional sightings reported.
If you see a mountain lion Call 911,DO NOT APPROACH IT, especially one that is feeding or with kittens. Most mountain lions will try to avoid confrontation.
Here are a few tips:
If you encounter a mountain lion, do not run; instead, face the animal, make noise and try to look bigger by waving your arms; throw rocks or other objects.
For more information about mountain lions go to www.keepmewild.org
Missing Person 11/1/14
The Stanford Department of Public Safety has been notified of a missing adult female, 20 years old, who was last seen in the Mayfield Avenue area, on foot, on 10/31/14 at 11:30pm.
She is described as a Hispanic female, 5'6", 135 lbs; with brown hair and brown eyes. She was last seen wearing a black shirt with a black Batman cape, black glittery shorts, and black boots.
If you have any information on her whereabouts, please contact Stanford University Department of Public Safety at 650-329-2413.
Further updates when available will be posted on this website.
Update to Missing Person 11/1/14, 10:18am
The Stanford Department of Public Safety has been notified that the female previously reported missing from the Mayfield Avenue area has been located and is reported safe.
Update to Gas Line Break, 11/6/14
At approx. 8:49am on Thursday, November 6, 2014, a gas line break occurred on Lomita Drive near Roth Way and the Old Chemistry Building. PG&E are currently on scene and working to solve the problem. Also on the scene are Palo Alto Fire, Stanford Police and Office Environmental Health and Safety.
Out of an abundance of caution, the following buildings have been evacuated: Herrin Lab, Herrin Hall and Old Chemistry Building. Buildings near Serra Street, including Sequoia Hall, are also being monitored. If you smell gas, call 911. Palo Alto Fire is advising people to stay away from the vicinity until further notice.
Additional updates will be posted on this website and via AlertSU as available.
Gas Line Break Update, 11/6/14: Repairs Continue
PG&E continues to repair a gas line break in front of the Old Chemistry Building on Lomita Drive near Roth Way. Also on the scene are Palo Alto Fire, Stanford Police and Office Environmental Health and Safety. There is currently no estimated time for completion of repairs. Please stay away from the vicinity.
Out of an abundance of caution, the following buildings have been evacuated: Herrin Lab, Herrin Hall and Old Chemistry Building. If you are in a nearby building and smell gas, call 911.
Additional updates will be posted on this site and via AlertSU as available.
Gas Line Break Update, 11/6/14: Class Relocations
The following classes have been relocated due to the evacuation of Herrin Hall:
Math 113 (2:15-3:30) has been moved from Herrin T-175 to 420-041
Math 42A (1:15-3:05) has been moved from Herrin T-195 to 200-015
In addition, Chem 299 (7:00-10:00pm) may be relocated from Herrin T-185; a decision will be made ~3:00pm.
Gas Line Break Update, 11/6/14: Gas Line Break Resolved
The gas line break on Lomita Drive near Roth Way has been resolved. All buildings have been reopened.
Reported Sexual Assault
On November 17, 2014, a Campus Security Authority reported to the department of Public Safety that a female student had been sexually assaulted. The location, date and time of the incident are unknown at this time.
Stanford University does not tolerate sexual assault, sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. The university encourages anyone who has been sexually assaulted or subject to other forms of sexual misconduct or harassment to report the incident to university officials.
The information about this incident is being reported to you in accordance with the Clery Act. The remainder of this email provides information about preventing and reporting sexual assault.
	•	Ignorance of the law or of university policy concerning sexual assault, sexual misconduct and sexual harassment is not a defense.
	•	Receive affirmative consent from your partner before engaging in sexual activity.
	•	Perpetrators may attempt to use alcohol to facilitate a sexual assault. Statistically, the majority of reported sexual assaults occur while one or both parties are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Alcohol or drugs may impair one's ability to judge whether or not consent has been given, but it is never an excuse for choosing to violate another person.
	•	There are a number of drugs that may be added to beverages with the intent of altering the consciousness or incapacitating a person without their knowledge. These drugs are particularly dangerous when combined with alcohol and often produce amnesia, leaving a victim unclear about what occurred afterward. These drugs can facilitate criminal activity, most often acts of sexual misconduct or sexual assault.
If you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, or if you aren't sure whether you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, there are a number of resources available to you at Stanford to inform you of your options and to support you in whatever path you choose to take in addressing the incident. For more information contact:
Sexual Assault and Relationship Abuse (SARA) Officehttps://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/sara   Sexual Harassment Policy Office https://harass.stanford.edu   Title IX Office  https://titleix.stanford.edu   Wellness Resources at Stanford https://wellness.stanford.edu  or the Stanford Department of Public Safety via this website or by calling (650)723-9633 during regular business hours.
Attempted Burglary 11/18/14
On Tuesday, November 18, 2014, at approx. 9:55pm, an attempted burglary occurred at Enchanted Broccoli Forest. The suspect attempted to gain entry by prying open a window that was partially open, but did not enter. The suspect is still at large and there is no description available.
The Stanford Police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. Additionally, we ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible. Additional information will be posted on this website as it becomes available.
Prowler 11/19/14
On Wednesday evening, 11/19/14, the Stanford Police received a report that a prowling incident had occurred at the Terra House, on Cowell Lane, at 6:58pm.
Witnesses reported the suspect entered multiple dorm rooms. When confronted by a resident, the suspect exited the building and drove away in blue/grey van.
Witnesses described the suspect as a black or hispanic male, approximately 30 years old, wearing a tan baseball cap and a grey shirt.
The Stanford Department of Public Safety encourages individuals to be alert and take measures to protect yourself. Keep doors and windows locked. Call 911 to report suspicious activity.
Any updates will be posted as available on this website.
Prowling 11/30/14
On Sunday afternoon, 11/30/14, at 3:30PM, the Stanford Police received a report that a prowling incident occurred at the Rains complex, on Rossi Lane, at 5:15AM, on 11/30/14.
An unknown intruder entered an unlocked apartment located in the Rains complex. The victims were awake and heard the intruder enter the apartment. The intruder walked directly to the victim's room door and opened it. The intruder held a flashlight and shined the light on the residents. The resident called out his roommate's name at which time the intruder turned and exited the apartment. The victims did not see the suspect.
The intruder was in the apartment for less than ten seconds. The victims were not threatened and no property was taken. The motive of the suspect is unknown.
The Stanford Police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. Additionally, we ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible. Additional information will be posted on this website as it becocmes available.
Community Alert: FBI Public Service Announcements
The FBI has recently issued two public service announcements regarding scams which have resulted in victims throughout the country.
The first scam is known as the "Work-from-home" scam, which specifically targets university students. Students have received emails recruiting them for payroll and/or human resource positions with fictitious companies. The "position" requires the student to provide his/her bank account number under the guise of setting up direct deposit for his/her pay.
The second scam is a university employee payroll scam. The employees are receiving fraudulent emails indicating a change in their human resource status. The email contains a link directing the employee to login to their human resources website to identify this change. While the website looks very similar to the legitimate site, it is actually a bogus site where the scammers are able to steal the employee's credentials. The scammers then use these credentials to access the employee's direct deposit information via the actual website, redirecting their pay.
A copy of the complete FBI Public Service Announcements may be viewed here:
Work From Home Scam University Payroll Scam
To avoid becoming a victim, NEVER send money or provide personal or financial information to anyone who requests such information through an email or other solicitation, no matter how good or credible the offer sounds!
If you have any questions, concerns, or would like additional information, please call the Department of Public Safety at (650)723-9633.
Community Alert - Auto Burglaries
There have been 14 auto burglaries since the beginning of Winter Quarter. The majority of the burglaries have taken place in Parking Structure 6 (below Wilbur Field) although others have occurred in other locations on campus.
To help prevent from becoming a target, the Stanford University Department of Public Safety is encouraging individuals to engage in a few simple practices:
	•	Do not leave valuables inside a vehicle or unattended on your desk or work area.
	•	If your vehicle is equipped with an alarm system, activate it each time you leave the vehicle unattended.
	•	Most importantly, if you observe any suspicious activity or behavior such as an individual loitering around vehicles, peering into vehicles, and/or trying door handles, or wandering in an office area without legitimate business, call 9-1-1 immediately.
Additionally, the university is encouraging individuals to encrypt their mobile devices. Information about ways to best protect your mobile devices can be found athttp://www.stanford.edu/group/security/securecomputing/
If you do become the victim of a crime, please report it immediately to the local law enforcement jurisdiction. If the property which has been stolen contains sensitive or confidential data, report the theft immediately to the university’s Privacy Office at (650) 725-1828 or privacy@stanford.edu.
If you have any questions, concerns, or would like additional information about crime prevention, please call the Department of Public Safety at (650)723-9633.
Community Alert-Major Traffic Delays & Parking Impacts on Feb. 13
On Friday, Feb. 13, the White House Summit on Cybersecurity and Consumer Protection will impact parking and traffic on and around campus.
For information on parking impacts and traffic delays please refer to the Parking & Transportation website.
Community Alert- Possible Mountain Lion Sighting
At 09:34 am there was a report of a possible mountain lion sighting. It was reportedly seen in the vicinity of Page Mill and Peter Coutts. If you see a mountain lion DO NOT APPROACH IT, especially one that is feeding or with kittens. Most mountain lions will try to avoid confrontation. Call 9-1-1.
Here are a few tips: Avoid hiking or jogging when mountain lions are most active- dawn, dusk, and at night. If you encounter a mountain lion, do not run; instead, face the animal, make noise and try to look bigger by waving your arms; throw rocks or other objects.
For more information about mountain lions, visit www.keepmewild.org.
Community Alert--Low Pressure Gas Line Leak 2/19/15, 2:00pm
From Stanford PD:02/19/15, Low pressure gas leak at Fremont Road between Searsville and Electioneer, 2:00pm. Campus Drive is not impacted. If possible avoid the area. PG&E is on scene.
Updates, when available, at emergency.stanford.edu.
Update to Gas Line Leak 2/19/15, 3:38pm
The low pressure gas line break in the area of Fremont Road between Searsville and Electioneer has been shut off and rendered safe by PG&E. The area is now open to vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
Community Alert-- Southbound El Camino Real Closed 2/24/15, 6:45 PM
From Stanford PD: Palo Alto PD has closed southbound El Camino Real between Embarcadero Road and Serra Street due to a vehicle rollover. Use alternate routes, and note that northbound traffic on El Camino Real has also been impacted. Updates, when available, will be posted to emergency.stanford.edu.
Update to Closure of Southbound El Camino Real 2/24/15, 7:55 PM
From Stanford PD: The accident that closed the southbound lanes of El Camino Real has been cleared. Normal traffic has resumed.
Burglary 03/04/15
At 1:50am on Wednesday March 4, 2015, the Department of Public Safety received a report that a burglary had occured on Hoskins Court sometime between 9:00pm March 3, 2015 and 1:30am on March 4, 2015.
An unknown suspect entered an apartment that was occupied by two roommates who were sleeping. The suspect took two laptops and then exited the rear door of the apartment. The suspect is still at large and there is no description available at this time.
The Stanford Police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. We ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible. Additional information will be posted on this website as it becomes available.
Gas Leak 4/16/15
There is a reported gas leak at Manzanita Dining at 2:53pm. Emergency Response Team and PG&E are on scene. Stay away from the area until further notice. Updates when available on this website.
Gas Leak update 4/16/15
The gas leak at Manzanita Dining has been shut off and rendered safe by PG&E. PG&E remains on scene and the area is open to pedestrian traffic.
Thank you for your cooperation.
Prowler 4/30/15
Reported Prowler at Governor's Ave/Griffin House, 1050pm. Be alert & protect yourself. Updates when available at this webpage.
Prowler Update 4/30/15
At 10:50pm, Stanford police received a report of a prowler at Governor’s Corner.
Subject is described as a white male adult, 5’8”-5’9”, approximately 50-60 years old, average build, wearing a dark hoodie, dark baseball cap, dark pants (possibly jeans) and eyeglasses.
The Stanford Police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. Additionally, we ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible. Additional information will be posted on this website as it becomes available.
Police Activity 5/22/15
At 2:30AM on 5/22/15. Stanford Police was involved in a vehicle pursuit down Lomita way. Vehicle collided into the fence outside of the Old Chemistry building. Subject then fled on foot and is described as a Hispanic male with unknown clothing. Stay away from the area. Updates when available at this webisite.
Police Activity Update 3:00AM 5/22/15
Subject is still at large and described as a Hispanic male with brown hair and brown eyes. Approximately 170 lbs.
Please stay away from the area.
Updates when available at this website.
Police Activity Update 4:30AM 5/22/15
At 4:30AM on 5/22/15 Stanford Police cleared the Old Chemistry area and normal traffic may resume.
Stanford Police encourages everyone to always be aware of their surroundings and report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible.
Burglary 06/11/2015 02:06am
On 06/11/2015 at 02:06am, an unknown suspect(s) entered three unlocked and unoccupied rooms at the Ujamaa Dorm located in Lagunita Court on Santa Teresa Street. Various reports of personal property were taken. Please remember to be vigilant, lock your doors, and report any suspicious activity immediately.
Possible Burglary, 06/22/2015 12:00PM
On 06/22/2015 at 12:00PM there was a report of a possible burglary from the 700 block of Frenchmans Road on the Stanford Campus. There is a possible suspect description of an unknown race male wearing a black t-shirt riding a mountain bike in an unknown direction of travel. Be alert and report any suspicious activity immediately.
Possible Burglary: Update 6/22/15
On Monday, June 22, 2015 Department of Public Safety received a call reporting a possible burglary on Frenchman’s Rd. While upstairs, the owner of the home heard noises down stairs. When he looked out the window he saw a person wearing a black t-shirt riding a bike down his driveway headed towards Frenchman’s Rd.
Deputies responded to the area but were unable to locate the suspect.
Anyone with additional information should contact the Stanford Police at 650-329-2413.
The Stanford police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. Additionally, we ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police as soon as possible by calling 911.
Additional information as it becomes available will be posted at: https://emergency.stanford.edu or on this site.
This message is being sent to you in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Act.
Fire 7/3/2015
A fire started at Lake Lagunita, at approximately 12:30pm. Stay away from the area. Updates when available at emergency.stanford.edu or on this website
Fire Update 7/3/2015
On 7/3/15, around 12:30pm there was a fire at Lake Lagunita. Palo Fire is currently on scene and evacuations are taking place for at following addresses: 1135 Campus Drive (Narnia House) and 1115 Campus Drive (Enchanted Broccoli Forrest).
Please stay away from the area. Updates when available at emergency.stanford.edu or on this site.
Fire Update 7/3/2015
The vegetation fire that was reported previously in the Lake Lagunita area has been extinguished. Palo Alto Fire Department remains on scene performing inspection and cleanup of the area. The fire was started by a remote controlled plane that crashed. There are no reports of injuries or damage to structures. Nearby student residence buildings will be reopened shortly.
As a precautionary measure, the Dish area is being closed for the remainder of the day. Further updates when available at emergency.stanford.edu or on this site.
Attempted Robbery, 07/07/2015, 1:30 PM
On 07/07/2015 at 1:30PM, an attempted robbery occured in the area of University Avenue near Bryant Street. The suspect attempted to take the victim's iPhone while brandishing a pocket knife however, her efforts were thwarted by surrounding individuals in the area. An updated description has been obtained from the Palo Alto Police Department with the suspect being described as a hispanic female with a thin build and slight accent, possibly around 4'8"-5' tall, 18-20 years of age with lighter colored skin. The suspect reportedly had long, dark hair that extended to the middle of her back, and was wearing blue pants with a white shirt at the time of the attempted robbery. The suspect was last seen traveling northbound on Waverly Street. Be alert and stay aware of your surroundings. Please report any information related to this incident or any other suspicious activity to 911 immediately.
Mountain Lion Sighting 07/09/15
A mountain lion was seen in the vicinity of Gerona Road and Junipero Blvd.at 7:50pm. Public Safety has searched the area and there have been no additional sightings reported. If you see a mountain lion do not approach it, especially one that is feeding or with cubs. Most mountain lions will try to avoid confrontation. Call 911. If you encounter a mountain lion, do not run; instead, face the animal, make noise and try to look bigger by waving your arms; throw rocks or other objects. For more information about mountain lions go to www.keepmewild.org.
Gas Line Break 7/14/15 3:52pm
Both 1047 Campus Drive and Kappa Sigma located at 1035 Campus Drive houses have been evacuated and Campus Drive has been closed from Mayfield Avenue to Junipero Serra Boulevard. Please stay away from the area until further notice. Updates available at emergency.stanford.edu or on this site. .
Gas Leak Update 07/14/15 5:38pm
As an update to the reported gas leak at 1047 Campus Drive, the gas line has been capped. It is now safe to return to the area and buildings. However, Campus Dr. remains closed between Mayfield Ave. and Junipero Serra Blvd. Updates when available at emergency.stanford.edu or this website
Gas Leak Update 07/14/15 6:09pm
As a final update to the gas leak at 1047 Campus Drive, Campus Dr. between Mayfield Ave. and Junipero Serra Blvd. is now open for normal traffic. Thank you for your patience and cooperation.
Update on Dinkelspiel Auditorium Area
Stanford Police ask members of the campus community to be on the lookout for the man below who was reported to have been near Dinkelspiel Auditorium on Tuesday evening with what a witness believed to be a gun.
A person approximately 50 feet away reported seeing this man standing and drinking from a green bottle, with what appeared to be a black handgun nearby on the ground, just after 8 p.m. Tuesday, July 28. When deputies arrived to investigate, neither the subject nor a gun could be located. There have been no additional reports of an armed individual.
As a precautionary measure, Stanford Police ask the Stanford community to be on the lookout for anyone matching the subject’s description. He was described as a white male in his 30s with short, dark brown hair; a clean-shaven face; and a distinctively large nose and bulging eyes. He was reported to be wearing khaki shorts and a T-shirt of an unknown color.
Please be aware of your surroundings and call 911 if you see this individual or anyone else carrying a gun. Additional updates are not expected unless further information is obtained that indicates an ongoing threat to the community.
Mountain Lion Sighting 07/29/2015
A mountain lion was seen in the vicinity of Santa Ynez and Mayfield at approximately 12:10am. Public Safety has searched the area and there have been no additional sightings reported. If you see a mountain lion do not approach it, especially one that is feeding or with cubs. Most mountain lions will try to avoid confrontation. Call 911. If you encounter a mountain lion, do not run; instead, face the animal, make noise and try to look bigger by waving your arms; throw rocks or other objects. For more information about mountain lions go to www.keepmewild.org.
Bomb Threat at GSB, 8/14/2015
There has been a bomb threat at the Graduate School of Business / Knight Management Center. Out of an abundance of caution, the area has been evacuated while police search the area. Stay away from all areas around Arguello Way, Campus Drive, and Serra Mall.
For the most current updates on this situation, visit http://emergency.stanford.edu
Update to Bomb Threat at GSB, 8/14/2015
At around 5:15pm Friday evening, 8/14/15, after officers from the Stanford Department of Public Safety and the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office concluded their search of the facilities and determined there was no threat, all buildings in the Knight Management Center complex reopened.
Police thank members of the campus community for their cooperation.
The Department of Public Safety encourages community members to be alert to your surroundings and to report any suspicious activity or packages to police by calling 911.
Any persons with information about the bomb threat are urged to call the Stanford Department of Public Safety at 650-723-9633.
Missing Person 9/14/15
The Department of Public Safety has been notified of an at-risk missing adult male. He was last seen at his on-campus residence this morning.
The missing male, named Richard, is 85 years of age and described as a white male, 5' 8" tall and approximately 145 pounds. He has gray eyes and is mostly bald with some gray hair. He was last seen wearing a green t-shirt printed with the words "Marco Island" and khaki shorts.
Richard may be traveling in a blue Ford C-MAX with Minnesota license plates.
If seen, please contact the Stanford University Department of Public Safety at 650-329-2413.
Updates, when available, will be posted to this website.
Update: Missing Person 9/14/15
The at-risk missing adult male named Richard was located in good health and reunited with his family. No further assistance is needed.
Sexual Battery
On 9/18/15 at 10:01 PM, a sexual battery occurred at Tresidder Memorial Union. The suspect was apprehended by Stanford deputies at 10:22 PM without further incident.
Stanford Police encourages everyone to be aware of their surroundings and report suspicious and criminal activity to the police by calling 911 as soon as possible.
Fire 10/12/2015
Fire at Maples Pavilion - Road closures at Campus Drive between Bonair Siding and Sam McDonald Mall. Pedestrians avoid all areas surrounding Maples Pavilion until further notice.
Fire Update/Power Outage 10/12/2015
Campus officials are working to restore power to approximately 35 buildings impacted by a power outage. Lands, Buildings and Real Estate (LBRE) Operations Center is communicating directly with building managers about the power outage. The electrical fire at Maples is thought to be related to the power outage. No one was injured in the fire at Maples, which occurred in the southeast corner of the building. Fire crews have departed Maples. Updates will be posted at emergency.stanford.edu
Police Activity Update 10/17/15
As previously reported via text and email, there is police activity on Junipero Serra Blvd impacting the surrounding areas. A major injury collision has occurred on JSerra between Campus Drive East and Stanford Ave. Junipero Serra will be closed until further notice. Please take alternate routes and avoid the area.
Further updates will be posted when available on this website.
Indecent Exposure
On Monday, November 2nd, at approximately 5:00am, a male (who was not recognized as a resident of the dorm) deliberately exposed himself to another male at the Castano dorm located at 685 Escondido Road.
The victim described the suspect as a dark skinned Hispanic or Southeast Asian male; late 20′s to 30 years old; 5’5″ with a heavy build. The suspect was last seen wearing a black “flip billed” cap, a black tank top, unknown color shorts, and black and white checkered ?Vans? tennis shoes that were old and worn. The suspect may have a slight mustache and/or goatee.
For the safety and security of our community, the Department of Public Safety encourages community members to report crimes and suspicious activity or behavior immediately by calling 9-1-1 (9-9-1-1 from a campus phone).
Indecent Exposure
On Monday, November 2nd, at approximately 5:00am, a male (who was not recognized as a resident of the dorm) deliberately exposed himself to another male at the Castano dorm located at 685 Escondido Road.
The victim described the suspect as a dark skinned Hispanic or Southeast Asian male; late 20′s to 30 years old; 5’5″ with a heavy build. The suspect was last seen wearing a black “flip billed” cap, a black tank top, unknown color shorts, and black and white checkered ?Vans? tennis shoes that were old and worn. The suspect may have a slight mustache and/or goatee.
For the safety and security of our community, the Department of Public Safety encourages community members to report crimes and suspicious activity or behavior immediately by calling 9-1-1 (9-9-1-1 from a campus phone).
Attempted Theft From Vehicle
On Tuesday, December 8th, at approximately 7:50pm, an attempted theft from inside a vehicle occurred in the parking lot of the Pearce Mitchell Houses at Campus Dr. and Mayfield Ave. The unknown subject entered the unlocked vehicle, but no property was taken. The owner discovered the subject inside his vehicle, who then fled east down Mayfield Ave. into residential housing. The subject was a white male approximately 5’7″ in his 20s or 30s and was wearing a green shirt with black shorts over black tights.
The Stanford police encourage individuals to keep their doors and windows locked. Additionally, we ask the community to report suspicious and criminal activity to the police as soon as possible.
Anyone with additional information should contact the Stanford Police at 650-329-2413.
Online Blackmail Scam
The Department of Public Safety has been made aware of fraudulent online activity impacting individuals at Stanford. As a result, campus police are warning users of internet-based video chat programs (such as Skype) about an online blackmail scam.
To carry out the scam, the offender contacted the individual victims on a social networking site using an assumed identity. After establishing a relationship, the offender convinced the victims to engage in intimate acts which the victims believed were taking place in a private video chat session. Unbeknownst to the individual victims, the victim's actions were recorded by the suspect. Later, the offender blackmailed the individual victims with the threat of releasing the recorded footage to their social media contacts unless payment was made (usually via a wire transfer). The suspect(s) did send the recorded material of at least one of the victims to others without the victim's consent.
To avoid becoming a victim, we recommend the following:
- Refrain from video chatting (e.g. webcam) with, or sending photos or videos to, anyone whom you do not know and trust.
- Assume any private video footage or images you transmit over the internet could become public without your knowledge or consent.
- Set social media preferences to private, including your contact list.
- Make sure that your software and systems are up-to-date and that you are using up-to-date security software. Be aware that anything you do on the internet, including video and voice calls, can be recorded.
- Be cautious about people whom you meet online. They may not be whom they claim to be.
Revealing personal details online is extremely risky. If you are a victim of any scam or fraud, please report it immediately to the Stanford University Department of Public Safety at (650) 329-2413 (24/7) or your local law enforcement agency.
Thefts From Vehicles
This Community Alert is to notify the Stanford community that there has been a recent spike in thefts from vehicles. The thefts have occurred at various locations and times on campus. Several of these thefts have occurred from vehicles parked at Nixon Elementary School after school hours and on weekends. The method of entry into the vehicles has been through unlocked doors or by smashing a window. To help avoid becoming a victim, the Stanford University Department of Public Safety (SUDPS) is encouraging individuals to follow a few simple practices:
- Do not leave valuables exposed inside a vehicle, including shopping bags with the store name or logo printed on the side. You should take them with you or secure them in the trunk.
- LOCK the doors and roll up the windows whenever you will be away from your vehicle.
- If your vehicle is equipped with an alarm system, activate it each time you leave the vehicle unattended.
- Park in lighted and visible parking lots and streets, when possible.
- Avoid parking next to or between larger vehicles than yours that can provide concealment for a thief (vans, SUVs, trucks).
- Most importantly, dial 9-1-1 immediately if you observe any suspicious activity or behavior (e.g. an individual loitering around vehicles, peering into vehicles, and/or trying door handles), or if you are a victim of a theft.
If you have any questions, concerns, or would like additional information on crime prevention, please call SUDPS at (650) 723-9633 (M-F, 8am to 5pm) or email us at police@stanford.edu.
