CRIME ADVISORY Coral Gables Campus Offense: Strong-arm robbery (backpack snatching) Date and Time of Offense: April 29th, 2015, at approximately 02:00 AM Location: 5200 Brunson Ave. (Parking lot East of the Centrex Building) Coral Gables Police Dept. Case Number: 15 - 3343 Subject Information: Dark-skinned male, medium build. Last seen wearing a red and gray colored cap, dark-colored T-shirt, gray sweatpants, and dark sneakers with a dark-colored backpack on his back. Event Description: A UM student reported to police that she was walking to her vehicle in the parking lot near the Panhellenic and Centrex buildings when the offender came from behind and snatched the student's backpack from her by force. With the property, the offender immediately fled into campus, where he was able to elude the student. UMPD first responders setup a perimeter in the immediate area, but were unable to locate the offender. UMPD has increased patrols in the area and is actively investigating this incident at this time.

CRIME ADVISORY Coral Gables Campus Offense: Armed robbery Date and Time of Offense: August 4, 2015, at approximately 12:30 AM (early this morning) Locaton: 5500-blk San Amaro Drive (Northbound sidewalk) Coral Gables Police Dept. Case Number: 15 - 005820 Subject Information: Vehicle Information: Dark-skinned male, approx 6' 1" tall, in his early 20's. Last seen wearing a bright-colored Polo shirt and light-colored shorts, carrying a handgun. 4-door, dark-colored sedan Event Description: A male (unrelated to the University of Miami) reported to the Coral Gables police that, while walking on the northbound sidewalk on San Amaro Drive (near the IM Fields and School of Music parking lot), a dark-colored vehicle drove past him and then made an abrupt U-turn. The above-described subject then exited the vehicle on the passenger's side and approached the victim with a firearm, demanding the victim's property. The victim then ran onto campus, while the offender entered back into the vehicle and fled the scene travelling southbound on San Amaro Drive. UMPD has stepped up patrol in the area and CGPD is actively investigating the incident at this time. Earlier that same evening, a similar incident occurred west of Red Rd., a few blocks from campus, involving some UM Students who were robbed by a dark-skinned male with a firearm after being confronted in front of their off-campus residence. Wearing a ski mask, the offender demanded entry into the students' residence and then ordered the students to hand over their property before leaving the scene shortly afterward
