April 1, 2014
NDSP is investigating a report of indecent exposure reported on Tuesday, April 1 at about 7:45 p.m. between DeBartolo Hall and the Snite Museum of Art. Police received a report from two people that a man in a red Ford pickup truck with Indiana license plates was exposing himself. When he was observed by the witnesses, he drove south on Eddy Street and off campus. The suspect was described to police as a male, white, in late 20s to early 30s, with short brown hair and unshaven, wearing blue jeans and a red t-shirt.
When walking on campus after dark, call (574) 631-5555 for an escort from the men and women of Notre Dame SafeWalk. A SafeWalk employee will meet you and walk with you to or from any point on campus. The service is free and confidential. Information on crime prevention is available at ndsp.nd.edu/crime-prevention-and-safety .
Anyone with any information concerning this crime is encouraged to call Notre Dame Security Police at (574) 631-5555. To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity (crime may be occurring), fire or medical emergency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or dial (574) 631-5555 from your cellular telephone.
Case number 14-0759
April 8, 2014
It was reported that a sexual assault was committed by an acquaintance in a north quad men’s residence hall in the early morning hours of April 5, 2014. The report was made to a university administrator.
Sexual assault can happen to anyone. Anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given. According to du Lac, “Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity. Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance.” Importantly, intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated—whether by alcohol, drugs, or otherwise—is incapable of giving consent. For more information on consent and incapacitation, see http://studenthandbook.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/smsa/.
As the University’s sexual assault policy makes clear: “Sexual misconduct of any kind is inconsistent with the University’s values and incompatible with the safe, healthy environment that the Notre Dame community expects. All members of this community share responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual.” On college campuses, perpetrators are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.
The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault. Nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault.
April 15, 2014
NDSP is investigating a report of a sexual battery that occurred outside the south end of LaFortune Student Center on Tuesday morning, April 15, 2014. The suspect approached a female student in this location just before 5:00 A.M. He grabbed the student and said something to her. The student broke away from the suspect and ran to safety.
The suspect is described as a Hispanic male possibly between 30 and 40 years of age. He was 5’10” – 6’ tall with what was described as a pot belly stomach, dark complexion and black loose curly hair just below the ear line. He had a beard but no mustache and a tattoo on his right upper arm that showed below his t-shirt sleeve. He spoke with a heavy Hispanic accent. The suspect was wearing a red t-shirt and dark pants.
Safewalk and NDSP officers are available to provide safety escorts on campus 24 hours a day. This service is available to students, faculty, staff and guests. Request a Safewalk by calling (574) 631-5555. Information on sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault are available from NDSP at http://ndps.nd.edu and from the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention at http://csap.nd.edu/.
Anyone with any information concerning this crime is encouraged to call NDSP at (574) 631-5555 or by contacting Crime Stoppers at (574) 288-STOP (7867) or http://southbend.crimestoppersweb.com/ . To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity (crime may be occurring), fire or medical emergency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or dial (574) 631-5555 from your cellular telephone.
NDSP Case 14-0903
May 31, 2014
Around 10:00 A.M. today, May 31, 2014, the ND Security Police received a report of a “road rage” type incident that occurred on the traffic circle at the intersection of Douglas and Juniper Roads. The suspect is a white male in his 30s or 40s wearing a muscle shirt and driving a black Infinity SUV. The suspect pulled up beside the victim’s vehicle and pointed a handgun at the victim. The suspect was last seen driving north on State Route 933.
If someone aggressively engages you while driving, either with a weapon or by driving aggressively, disengage and leave the area. As soon as you safely can, call 9-1-1 or drive to a police or fire station or other heavily populated area where you can get assistance.
Anyone with any information concerning this crime is encouraged to call NDSP at (574) 631-5555 or by contacting Crime Stoppers at (574) 288-STOP (7867) or http://southbend.crimestoppersweb.com/ . To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity (crime may be occurring), fire or medical emergency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or dial (574) 631-5555 from your cellular telephone.
NDSP Case 2014-1241
September 19, 2014
It was reported that an incident of sexual assault, as defined in du Lac (http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/sexual-misconduct/), occurred in the early morning hours of September 13th in a women’s residence hall in the north east area of campus. The report was made to a university administrator.
Sexual assault can happen to anyone. Anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given. According to du Lac, “Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity. Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance.” Importantly, intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated—whether by alcohol, drugs, or otherwise—is incapable of giving consent. For more information on consent and incapacitation, see http://studenthandbook.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/smsa/
As the University’s sexual assault policy makes clear: “Sexual misconduct of any kind is inconsistent with the University’s values and incompatible with the safe, healthy environment that the Notre Dame community expects. All members of this community share responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual.” On college campuses, perpetrators are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.
The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault. Nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault.
Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available from NDSP at http://ndsp.nd.edu/and at the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention website http://csap.nd.edu
To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity (crime may be occurring), fire or medical emergency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or dial (574) 631-5555 from your cellular telephone.
October 5, 2014  An attempted sexual assault, as defined in du Lac (http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/sexual-misconduct/), was reported near the lakes in the early morning hours of Saturday, October 4, 2014, when the suspect and victim were walking back to the victim’s residence hall from an off-campus location. The report was made to a campus administrator.  Sexual assault can happen to anyone. Anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given. According to du Lac, “Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity. Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance.” Importantly, intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated—whether by alcohol, drugs, or otherwise—is incapable of giving consent. For more information on consent and incapacitation, see http://studenthandbook.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/smsa/  As the University’s sexual assault policy makes clear: “Sexual misconduct of any kind is inconsistent with the University’s values and incompatible with the safe, healthy environment that the Notre Dame community expects. All members of this community share responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual.” On college campuses, perpetrators are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.  The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault. Nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault.  Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available from NDSP at http://ndsp.nd.edu/and at the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention website http://csap.nd.edu
November 11, 2014 (update to November 8 alert)  Notre Dame Police interviewed the complainant and three other males involved in a robbery and abduction last weekend. The complainant did not enter their vehicle on campus, as he originally reported, but several miles away. There was no evidence of an abduction, and insufficient evidence to warrant an arrest on robbery or other charges. The case remains under investigation.  
November 8, 2014  Around 2:00 A.M. Saturday morning a Notre Dame student was approached by three men in a silver sedan on Notre Dame Avenue between the Morris Inn and Holy Cross Drive. One of the men got out of the vehicle and instructed the student to come with them. They demanded money and took the student to a gas station and a grocery store so he could get cash for them. They then brought the student back to campus. No gun was seen, but it was implied that at least one of the three men had a gun. The suspects were described as three black males wearing dark clothing. They had no facial hair or visible marks or tattoos. One of the men had dreadlocks. One of the men was about 6 feet tall, medium build. All three appeared to be between 20-23 years old.  Students are encouraged to travel in groups and utilize safe transportation such as licensed cabs or Transpo. Visithttp://offcampus.nd.edu/the-michiana-area/transportation/ for information about transportation options. The websites http://ndsp.nd.edu/and http://offcampus.nd.edu/ contain further information about safety on and off campus.  To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity (crime may be occurring), fire or medical emergency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or dial 574-631-5555 from your cellular telephone.
March 24, 2015
It was reported that an incident of sexual assault as defined in du Lac (http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/sexual-misconduct/) occurred in the early  morning hours of Friday, March 20, 2015 in a North Quad men's residence hall. The report was made to a university official.
Sexual Assault can happen to anyone. Anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engate in sexual contact unless consent is given. According to du Lac, "Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity. Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance." Importantly, intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated - whether by alcohol, drugs, or otherwise - is incapable of giving consent. For more information on consent and incapacitation, see http://studenthandbook.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/smsa/ .
As the University's sexual assault policy makes clear: "Sexual misconduct of any kind is inconsistent with the University's values and incompatible with the safe, healthy environment that the Notre Dame Community expects. All members of this community share responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual." On college campuses, perpetrators are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexaul assault.
The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault. Nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault. Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available from NDSP athttp://ndsp.nd.edu/ and at the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention website http://csap.nd.edu/
To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity (crime may be occurring), fire or medical emergency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or dial 574-631-5555 from your cellular telephone.
April 19, 2015
NDSP is investigating a report that an incident of sexual assault, as defined in du Lac (http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/sexual-misconduct/), occurred during the late night hours of April 17, 2015 in a South Quad men's residence hall.
Sexual assault can happen to anyone. Anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given. According to du Lac, “Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity. Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance.” Importantly, intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated—whether by alcohol, drugs, or otherwise—is incapable of giving consent. For more information on consent and incapacitation, see http://studenthandbook.nd.edu/community-standards/standards/smsa/. 
As the University’s sexual assault policy makes clear: “Sexual misconduct of any kind is inconsistent with the University’s values and incompatible with the safe, healthy environment that the Notre Dame community expects. All members of this community share responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual.” On college campuses, perpetrators are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
 
The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault. Nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault.  
August 28, 2015
NDSP is investigating a report that an incident of sexual assault, as defined in du Lac (http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/important/#sa), occurred during the early morning hours of August 28, 2015 in a South Quad men's residence hall.
Sexual assault can happen to anyone.  Anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given.  According to du Lac, “Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity. Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance.”  Importantly, intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated—whether by alcohol, drugs, or otherwise—is incapable of giving consent.  For more information on consent and incapacitation, see http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/important/#consent
As the University’s sexual assault policy makes clear: “Sexual assault is inconsistent with the University’s values and incompatible with the safe, healthy environment that the Notre Dame community expects. All members of this community share responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual.”  On college campuses, perpetrators are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger.  Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.
The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault.  Nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault. 
August 30, 2015
University officials received a report that an incident of sexual assault, as defined in du Lac (http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/important/#sa), occurred during the early morning hours of August 30, 2015 in a Mod Quad men's residence hall.
University officials received a separate report that an incident of sexual battery (defined in du Lac as non-consensual sexual contact: http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/important/#sm), occurred in the early morning hours of August 30, 2015 in a North Quad men's residence hall. 
Sexual assault can happen to anyone.  Anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given.  According to du Lac, “Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity. Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance.”  Importantly, intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent, and a person who is incapacitated—whether by alcohol, drugs, or otherwise—is incapable of giving consent.  For more information on consent and incapacitation, see http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/important/#consent
As the University’s sexual assault policy makes clear: “Sexual assault is inconsistent with the University’s values and incompatible with the safe, healthy environment that the Notre Dame community expects. All members of this community share responsibility for creating and maintaining an environment which promotes the safety and dignity of each individual.”  On college campuses, perpetrators are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger.  Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.
The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault.  Nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault. 
Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available from NDSP at http://ndsp.nd.edu/and at the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention website http://csap.nd.edu/
To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity (crime may be occurring), fire or medical emergency, dial 9-1-1 from any campus phone or dial 574-631-5555 from your cellular telephone.
September 2, 2015
NDSP initiated an investigation of a complaint about Facebook posts by a recent graduate that raised concerns by a number of people.  This is an ongoing investigation. NDSP has identified and has been in contact with the individual and his family.  As always, if you are aware of any criminal or suspicious behavior on campus, please immediately report to NDSP by calling 9-1-1 from a campus phone or 574-631-5555 from a mobile phone.
September 27, 2015
At around 1:50 AM on September 27, 2015 a student reported being approached by a person or persons on the St. Joseph Lake path near the Power Plant.  A cell phone was taken out of the student's hands and he was pushed down.  No injuries were reported.  There was no description of the suspect(s).  
Community members are encouraged to travel in groups or contact O'SNAP for a safety escort at (574) 631-5555 or via the ND Mobile app Transit icon.
November 12, 2015
A report was made earlier today to the Deputy Title IX Coordinator that an incident of sexual assault, as defined in du Lac (http://dulac.nd.edu/community-standards/important/#sa),  occurred on November 7, 2015 in a West Quad men's residence hall. 
